Annabeth Chase

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Age

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Annabeth Chase is the Greek demigod daughter of Athena and Professor Frederick Chase , the half-sister of Bobby and Matthew Chase , and the paternal cousin of Norse demigod Magnus Chase . She is the deuteragonist in Percy Jackson and the Olympians series and is a main character in The Heroes of Olympus series, as she is one of the Seven demigods of the Prophecy of Seven . Annabeth is the architect of Olympus and the former head counselor of Athena's cabin . She is currently the girlfriend of Percy Jackson .

Contents

History [ ]

Birth [ ]

Frederick Chase met Athena , the goddess of wisdom, battle, and craftsmanship, while he was studying History at Harvard. She helped him get through his studies; consequently, they fell in love. Shortly after, On July 12, Athena sent him their daughter, a girl named Annabeth Chase, as a gift. She was considered a "Brain child" like all other children of Athena , which means that they were born from the thoughts of the goddess.

Annabeth appeared on Frederick's doorstep in a golden cradle carried down from Olympus by Zephyros (or "Zephyr"), the West Wind . Her father asked her mother to take her back to Olympus and raise her there, as he didn't see Annabeth as a gift the way Athena did because he didn't know their relationship would result in a child and wasn't prepared to take care of her. Athena refused and told Frederick that heroes were supposed to be raised by their mortal parents and not their godly ones. In the end, he had no choice but to reluctantly take Annabeth in and care for her as well as he could.

Childhood [ ]

Annabeth took the last name of her father. When she was five, her father got married and had two sons with her step-mother, the twins Matthew and Bobby . Since she was a demigod, Annabeth was a target for monsters which caused constant fighting between her and her parents, who felt that she was constantly putting everyone in danger.

When Annabeth was seven years old, she and her father visited their family for Thanksgiving at the Chase Mansion in Boston. This included her uncle Randolph, her aunt Natalie, and her cousin Magnus Chase, who was, unbeknownst to Annabeth, a demigod son of Frey . Magnus and Annabeth played in an upper level of the house while the parents argued. Annabeth, while constructing a pantheon out of a set of Randolph's runestones, told Magnus to be careful, and that she was going to run away. A few moments later, Frederick and Annabeth left. Natalie also appeared to take Magnus away, and Annabeth would not see her cousin for years after that.

As revealed in The Mark of Athena , Annabeth was assaulted by a flood of spiders sent by Arachne at night for three days. Her skin was freckled with bites and cobwebs covered her eyes, mouth, and nose. She would subsequently scream for her father, who was always away for work, so her stepmother would come to her. Whenever her stepmother came into her bedroom, the spiders would hide, so her stepmother thought Annabeth was making it up to scare her stepbrothers and refused to call Frederick. By the time, she got dressed each morning, the marks of the painful bites inflicted on her had already faded, leaving the cobwebs, which didn't make for a convincing proof.

As a result, Annabeth ran away from home at the young age of seven, thinking her family hated her. She then fought monsters under the guidance of her immortal mother for a few months, using only a hammer.

Traveling with Thalia and Luke [ ]

A seven-year-old Annabeth was hiding under a sheet of corrugated iron in Richmond Ironworks , the same alley twelve-year-old Thalia Grace and fourteen-year-old Luke Castellan were hiding in once they escaped the house of monsters . After escaping, Thalia and Luke heard a noise coming from it and investigated the sound. After removing the sheet of iron, Annabeth ran toward Luke with her hammer and almost brained him with it, thinking he was a monster. Upon finding that Annabeth was a demigod, Luke and Thalia agreed that she could run away with them and Luke promised that he wouldn't let anything hurt her and they would become a better family than her old family, a promise he would break some years later. Luke gave Annabeth a bronze knife , which he got from Halcyon Green , so she would be able to protect herself with something better than a hammer for monster slaying.

Together, they went on the run, fighting monsters and making hideouts on the East Coast which were woven from plants, like Native American huts. (Said huts still contain sleeping bags, blankets, ice chests, and kerosene lamps, along with Celestial Bronze javelin tips, quivers with arrows, swords, and nectar/ambrosia.) They also took quite a few photos of themselves during this time, as shown in The Lost Hero . They show Luke wearing ragged makeshift leather armor over his t-shirt, enthusiastically pointing to a dark alley, Luke and Annabeth sitting at a campfire and laughing hysterically, and a photo of them together with Thalia.

After visiting Luke's old house to get medical supplies for Thalia, the group met Hermes for the first time. From that point on, Luke was never the same and began to act like he had something to prove, which the young Annabeth didn't see as a problem since Luke was her personal hero. They got into more skirmishes because of his recklessness, fighting more monsters since Luke wanted to pick a fight with each one, he came across. They once ran into Zoë Nightshade and the Hunters of Artemis , who tried recruiting Thalia among their ranks, but she refused in favor of remaining with Luke and Annabeth.

Journey to Camp Half-Blood [ ]

Eventually, the trio ran into Grover Underwood , a satyr who was in charge of taking demigods like them to Camp Half-Blood . The quartet began to travel to Camp Half-Blood but were chased by monsters sent by Hades , who was still furious and bitter about Zeus 's murder of his beloved Maria di Angelo having children, hoping to kill Thalia. Furthermore, Grover took some wrong turns on the way and led them into an abandoned mansion, which was a Cyclops lair. The Cyclopes separated them, using a loved one's voice to lure each person into a trap, capturing everyone except Annabeth. After wandering around, she managed to find the place where the Cyclops was keeping Thalia, Luke, and Grover, who were all hanging over a pot. The Cyclops tried to lure Annabeth to him by imitating her father's voice, but instead of going to the voice and getting captured as well, she stabbed him hard in the foot, which startled him, and untied Thalia, who then took care of everything else.

Despite their escape, the group was delayed long enough for a pack of Hellhounds and all three Furies to catch up to them. They couldn't outrun them, so Thalia decided to stay behind so that Annabeth, Luke, and Grover could make it safely to Half-Blood Hill . While Thalia held back Hades' approaching army with her Aegis shield, Luke was forced to lead a crying Annabeth, who had fallen and twisted her ankle, to Camp Half-Blood. As Thalia was dying surrounded by monsters, Zeus took pity on his daughter and turned her into a pine tree so that she wouldn't die and have to be judged by Hades.

Early Life at Camp [ ]

During the next three years, Annabeth would communicate with her father via letters, as phones were too dangerous for a demigod. He would occasionally ask her to return home, but she always refused. Frederick then sent her his Harvard college ring, in hopes that she would remember him by it and be convinced to come home.

Annabeth was ten years old when she heard the Great Prophecy . She had constant nightmares about it because Chiron told her that she would have a part to play. Every time a new camper came to Camp Half-Blood, she wondered if they were "the one," even if none of them were children of the Big Three . Shortly afterward, Annabeth returned home at her father's request, but promptly called Chiron and returned to Camp Half-Blood before the end of the winter holidays since monsters continued attacking her and she believed nothing had changed in her family.

In The Mark of Athena , it is mentioned that several years before Annabeth met Percy, Connor Stoll had placed a tarantula in her bunk, a prank for which she nearly killed him. At some point around this time, Grover taught Annabeth a wilderness survival course, which while she considered "silly" at the time, would come in handy for her years later.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

The Titan's Curse [ ]

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

The Demigod Files [ ]

Annabeth is the captain for the team opposing Percy's in Capture the Flag at Camp Half-Blood. Apparently trying to trick Percy, she tells him that although her team will crush his, he "won't get pulverized too much" if he picks a safe position, such as the right flank. Percy chooses to scout around the left flank with Charles Beckendorf , reasoning that Annabeth must not have wanted him to go that way for a strategic reason. Shortly after Beckendorf and Percy find Ant Hill and Beckendorf decides to try to recover Festus ' head from the Myrmekes , Annabeth and Silena Beauregard , who have been following them all along, show up. Annabeth puts her knife to Percy's throat and after saying to him that boys are easy to follow because they "make more noise than a lovesick Minotaur", she disarms him and takes him as a prisoner of her team. Percy, Silena, and Annabeth soon realize that Beckendorf is in trouble and overwhelmed by the Myrmekes, but Annabeth refuses to let Percy run over and help. She leads Percy and Silena to the dragon's head, then the three of them drag it away from Ant Hill. Led by Annabeth, they look for the dragon's body, finally finding it in another part of the woods . Annabeth repairs the dragon to the best of her abilities, then activates it. The three of them lead the dragon back to Ant Hill, where he attacks the Myrmekes and buys time while Annabeth, Percy, and Silena find Beckendorf and get him to safety. They kill several Myrmekes on their way out. The four of them then deactivate the dragon. Annabeth helps Percy (who got a bit of Myrmeke acid through his shoe) limp through the woods, back towards camp. Percy and Annabeth are just starting to talk about the subject of the fireworks on the 4th of July when three of her siblings from the Athena's Cabin jump out of the bushes and congratulate Annabeth for capturing two prisoners, Percy and Beckendorf. Annabeth puts them in her team's jail, with them protesting all the way. She then asks Percy "See you at the fireworks?" and leaves without waiting for his answer.

Percy remembers his last conversation with Annabeth in a train of positive thoughts to think about something other than a poisonous wound he has.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Between the Series [ ]

The Staff of Hermes [ ]

Percy Jackson and the Singer of Apollo [ ]

At some point in between the events of The Last Olympian and The Lost Hero , Annabeth went off to visit her father in San Francisco while Percy was celebrating Grover's birthday with Grover in Prospect Park, Brooklyn.

As Percy is about to let go and perhaps fall to his death in New York during a mission to apprehend one of the Chrysae Celadones, Percy remembers his time with Annabeth spent in the Sea of Monsters and how her anger at his death would be way scarier than any monster, which gives him the extra willpower to snap out of the Celadones' spell and come up with a plan to fight back.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Annabeth appears in a chariot pulled by pegasi with Butch Walker , a demigod son of Iris , the carrier of messages through rainbow "Iris-messages" for the gods and the Rainbow Goddess, to pick up the three demigods Jason Grace , son of Jupiter , Piper McLean , daughter of Aphrodite , and Leo Valdez , the son of Hephaestus . It is revealed she and Percy are still dating. Annabeth and Butch , went to the Grand Canyon in search of Percy, who has been missing for three days. Annabeth had been receiving visions from Hera , that a hero with one shoe, which she finds out is Jason, will solve her problems, which is finding Percy. She is also shown as frustrated and worried about Percy's disappearance. Before leaving the Grand Canyon, Annabeth yells to the sky, "What do you want from me? What have you done with him?" Annabeth gives Piper a tour of Camp Half-Blood, also letting Piper choose her weapon Katoptris , then explaining that Piper's relationship with Jason at the Wilderness School was an illusion due to the Mist and wanting to give Piper a chance to break down privately when she realized the same thing, though she has been holding herself together as well, it is obvious that Annabeth is equally crushed at losing Percy so mysteriously.

When Jason is given his quest to rescue Hera from the capture of Polyphrion the giant, Annabeth refuses to accompany the quest group, partly because the prophecy states that children of Hephaestus, Jupiter/Zeus, and Aphrodite will go instead, and partly out of her own distaste for Hera . Instead, she uses the time they are gone to continue her search for Percy.

She later meets up with Jason in Cabin One and informs him about Thalia. Annabeth also assures him that he has a good team and that she senses this isn't his first quest (which she is right about). Upon hearing Thalia's last name, Jason remembers that Thalia is his older sister to Annabeth's shock.

After the quest group returns and relates their findings — the rise of the giants, the attempted return of Gaea , and the fact that Jason was "exchanged" to the Greek Camp Half-Blood — Annabeth puts everything together and realizes, as Jason has, that Percy has been taken to the Roman Camp called Camp Jupiter as the corresponding half of the exchange. She vows to accompany Jason, Piper, and Leo when they journey there to retrieve him.

The Son of Neptune [ ]

While Percy Jackson is running away from the gorgons , Stheno and Euryale , he sees San Francisco, which reminds him of Annabeth, the only person he can remember from his past. Also, when Percy talked to Lupa , she told him that if he completed his quest, he would see Annabeth again soon.

Before Percy goes on his quest to free Thanatos , he has a dream and sees Annabeth. She tells him to stay at Camp Jupiter because Tyson and Mrs. O'Leary are close by and are trying to find him. When Percy wakes up, he feels bad that he will have to ignore Annabeth and go on the quest anyway as the Roman campers need him. During his quest, Percy has flashes of memory about Annabeth, as when he looked at Mount Tam, he remembered the fight with Atlas and he told Frank and Hazel he had been their once looking for Annabeth. Later when looking for Ella in a library, he said Annabeth would like this place as it was quiet and filled with books. He later remembers that she loved architecture.

After completing the quest, Hera appears to Percy in his dream. She tells him that Annabeth will cause him trouble in the future. When Percy says that Annabeth is the person he most wants watching his back, Hera says "We shall see," and tells Percy that she will have a hard task ahead of her when he arrives in Rome and that she may not be up to it.

The next morning, Percy arrives in the Senate meeting to discuss the arrival of the Argo II , which they will allow to land. As he goes to meet the ship, he says he knows Annabeth is on board and this could be the best day of his life if everything went right.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

The House of Hades [ ]

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

Hazel uses her ability control the Mist to disguise Annabeth and Piper as Greek serving maidens and Jason to appear as an old man by the name of Iros. Jason admits that Annabeth's hair look like spider legs but seems wary of admitting it, due to Annabeth's hatred of spiders. They are doing this in order to infiltrate Odysseus' palace , where a "gathering of evil spirits " is taking place. After sneaking into the palace, Annabeth repeats their plans before splitting up from the group. She is seen collecting empty plates and goblets, but when Antinous questions Jason about his purpose among the suitors, Annabeth helps to stall by spilling wine down the ghoul 's neck.

When Jason's mother appears, Annabeth informs him that it's only a remnant of Beryl Grace . She later fights the attacking suitors with her drakon-bone sword , taking down many, including Hasdrubal the Carthaginian. Sometime during the fight, Annabeth also received a cut on the side of her neck. She appears at Jason's side when he is stabbed by Michael Varus with an Imperial Gold sword, feeding the wounded boy ambrosia and telling him about Luke 's problems with his own mother .

Piper instructs Annabeth to contact Leo through Morse code, so the demigods could form a plan. She returns saying that Frank will change form and fly Jason up to the Argo II , before crafting a litter that will secure him. When Juno appears, Annabeth coldly addresses the goddess, still bitter at her for wiping Percy 's memories and taking him away.

Upon arrival in Athens, it's decided that Percy and Annabeth will sneak in with Piper while the others follow on the Argo II since the shrines dedicated to their godly parents, Poseidon and Athena, would help mask their presence. Under the city, the three discover the place where Poseidon made the saltwater spring appear when he contested with Athena to sponsor the city, beginning their rivalry. Percy pulls Annabeth into a long kiss declaring that rivarly to be over and that he loves her, his feelings for her melt Annabeth's heart. Aroung this time, Reyna sucessfully delivers the Athena Parthenos to Camp Half-Blood.

As a result of the statue, the gods promptly arrives in Athens to participate in the final battle with the Giants. Annabeth helps her mother Athena (now in her Greek form) to slay Enceladus , after which Hades sends his body back to Tartarus . During the battle, Annabeth receives a cut on her leg and spills blood and Percy gets a bloody nose. The combination of the two bloods awakens Gaea , who is at first restrained by the power of the Athena Parthenos, but eventually emerges from the ground at Camp Half-Blood to get her revenge.

When the battle is over Annabeth, Percy, Piper, Jason, Frank, Hazel, and Nico meet at the Big House to talk about Leo. Frank and Hazel tell the others about Leo's plan. They are angry at first but calm down when the two cry while explaining it.

Over the next few days, the Greeks and Romans get along and he is present at the campfire before the Romans head back to Camp Jupiter. Reyna and Frank then tell him that he and Annabeth can attend college and live in New Rome as long as they want

Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes [ ]

Annabeth pops up in the book once in a while. Percy mentions that Annabeth laughs while looking at the book, thinks Amazons comes from the word ha-mazan (in which Percy has to agree with because if he doesn't "she gets all ha-mazan " on Percy), and says most of Percy's salt water is in his head, and more.

Right after finishing his narration of this book, Percy reveals that after the events of The Blood of Olympus , he, Annabeth, and the rest of the Seven started the tradition of monthly Argo II reunion parties, and he is quite worried about being late to the current one.

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Son of Sobek [ ]

While Annabeth herself doesn't appear in this book, she is mentioned once by Percy when the latter claims that Carter reminds him of her.

The Staff of Serapis [ ]

The Crown of Ptolemy [ ]

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Sword of Summer [ ]

Ten years after the quarrel between the three Chase siblings, Annabeth and Fredrick go looking for Magnus in Boston after being notified by Randolph that Magnus has been missing since Natalie 's death two years previously. Annabeth was very angry at Randolph and wanted to strangle him, for not telling her about Natalie’s death for two years, and about Magnus. Frederick then told her she should probably avoid strangling him, and that he is her uncle, and that he cannot explain her uncles' actions, and never could. Annabeth was worried and didn’t even know if Magnus was alive, and told her father he might be dead in a ditch somewhere. They decided to head to a youth center on Charles street to see if he was there, after Randolph called them and said he wasn’t at the nearest homeless shelter.

Magnus witnessed them arguing and hid from them, and was notified of them looking for him by Blitzen , though he didn't know it was them. Magnus began to think a lot about his estranged cousin, and suggested to Randolph that instead of leaving, they wait for her and her father. He also wanted to reconnect with her before he died once he arrived at Hotel Valhalla .

Magnus reunited with Annabeth after ten years when he visited his own funeral, and she walked in. Annabeth was ecstatic to see him and tackled him in a hug, saying she knew he wasn't dead. Magnus blinked tears out of his eyes and said it was good to see her, and she said that she thought he was dead, and called him a butt. Annabeth thought that the body was fake and he was faking his death, but Magnus didn't deny that, since he didn't know how to explain the Norse afterlife to her. Magnus tried to leave to find his friends, but Annabeth told him not to and that she needed some answers, and reassured him she had been in dangerous situations before. She told him that Randolph hadn't told her anything except for that he was in danger because of his birthday, and he was taking him to the bridge. After Magnus told her there was a connection between his mother's death, the bridge, and who is father is, Annabeth offered to take him to a safe place , but Magnus declined. He quickly introduced her to Hearthstone and said he needed to go on a personal quest, and he will explain everything to her when it was over. Annabeth said she wanted to help, but she learned the hard way that she had to step back and let people do their own quests. She gave him her phone number and he kissed her cheek, and she called him a butt.

Magnus and Annabeth reunited on the Blue Hills after Magnus's quest, and spilled Natalie's ashes, with Annabeth remarking it is a lot better than the last memorial she attended. She said that Natalie was great and that they cremated Magnus's former body instead, with his ashes placed in a family mausoleum. She said that the service was hard on Randolph, who seemed shaken up, and confided that it was hard for her to hide what actually happened from her father, due to their rocky history and her efforts to try to be honest with him. Magnus apologized, saying he didn't want to rope Annabeth into his problems, but she said she understands more than he thinks. Magnus reassured her that he was okay and staying with "friends", and she asked for details, but Magnus said he didn’t want to put her in danger. Annabeth burst out laughing and said that her life was weird, and Magnus said he felt normal around her, and they shook hands, deciding to not hold secrets and make the next Chase family generation less messed up. They decided to bet on who's story as weirder and went to Fadlan's Falafel .

Between the books [ ]

Annabeth told Magnus afterward about the Greek gods in New York, and Magnus told Annabeth about the Norse gods. Annabeth also explained to Magnus how the Chase family had a special connection to gods, with both cousins being demigods from two different pantheons. She told him that all the old myths were true as long as their stories survived, and they fed off of human memory. She also told Magnus about dryads , and cried when she told him the most painful things she went through, of when she and Percy fell into Tartarus.

Before she went back to Manhattan , she promised to talk about it more afterward and warned him that she didn't have a cell phone due to monsters. She also told him to give Randolph the benefit of the doubt and that they shouldn’t give up on Randolph.

The Hammer of Thor [ ]

Magnus is worried after Annabeth doesn't text him or contact him since January, even though she told him she doesn't have a cell phone. Nevertheless, Magnus still cares about her and thinks about her, and has a picture of her in his hotel room.

After Magnus returned home from his quest, he sent a raven to meet up with Annabeth and they coordinated train rides, with them meeting halfway between Manhattan and Boston in New London, Connecticut. Annabeth hugged Magnus and was very worried about him, and said she was glad to see a raven at her window. They got lunch at the Muddy Waters Café and Annabeth explained that communications were down due to Apollo falling and the Triumvirate Holdings , and she realized that communications were gone between all demigods, not just Greek and Roman. She said she would’ve came to Boston sooner, but she had enough to deal with already. Magnus told Annabeth about Loki's escape and how he will be sailing to the farthest borders of Niflheim and Jotunheim to defeat him, and that since she'd been on a long boat ride, she could give him some pointers. Annabeth then decided it was time for him to meet Percy.

The Ship of the Dead [ ]

Annabeth and Percy Jackson were visiting Magnus in Boston and helping him train for his journey, with Alex Fierro . Alex and Annabeth watched from the dock as Percy helped Magnus dive in the sea, and applauded Percy when he demonstrated. Annabeth encouraged her cousin when he dived, but freaked out when she found out his sword, Jack could talk, and Magnus forgot to tell her. Jack chastised Annabeth when she called him "it" and she quickly corrected herself and said "he". Magnus introduced Jack to Percy and Annabeth, and Jack flew towards Annabeth trying to look for Riptide . Annabeth backed against the wall, and said she needed personal space. Annabeth was very shocked to find out that Riptide was a girl, but wasn’t shocked that Percy didn't know, and teasingly said he didn't even know she could write until the year before.

Alex and Magnus took Percy and Annabeth out to lunch then at Fadlan's Falafel, while they let Riptide and Jack get to know each other. They discussed when they were going to sail off, and Annabeth stated that heroes never get to be ready, but they do the best they can. Percy replied that it usually works out as they haven't died yet. Annabeth then elbowed Percy saying that he keeps trying to die and he put his arm around her, kissing her blonde curls on the top of her head, making Magnus's heart do a little twist, reminding him of what was at stake if he didn't stop Loki. Annabeth joked that Estelle Blofis drooled, just like Percy, when he told Magnus about Estelle. Annabeth also got worried when Percy got a look he gets when he gets an idea. Annabeth agreed with Percy that all sea gods are possessive, though it sounded like every god they've met, and smirked when she heard that Jason saved Percy from Kymopoleia , making Percy's ears turn as pink as Alex's jeans. She frowned when Percy said that the best plan was no plan, saying that, as a child of Athena , she cannot endorse that, but Percy stated how Annabeth was the most powerful demigod of their generation, and even though she cannot shapeshift and doesn't have powers, she is very smart and good at improvising, which's what makes her deadly, and Magnus should have trained with her all weekend instead of him. Annabeth said that was sweet and kissed Percy on the cheek. After, Annabeth rapped her knuckles on Percy's head after he and Alex discussed what they called the Mist , and said they were leaving soon, and that he should help her clean up. She then learned from Magnus and Alex that using their demigod powers short circuits mortal brains, and that they don't need to sneak around, they can just be themselves.

Annabeth said her goodbyes to Magnus and gave him a big hug and told him to take care, and ordered him to come back safely. Magnus promised, saying that Chases have to stick together. The last thing she did was ask Magnus if he was at Randolph's yet, since he needed to go through his things, and Magnus promised to that day. The last Magnus saw of Percy and Annabeth was Percy singing badly to Led Zeppelin in his Toyota Prius, and Annabeth laughing at his bad voice. As they left, Alex inquired that if Percy and Annabeth were any cuter together, they’d cause a nuclear explosion of cuteness and destroy the Eastern Seaboard.

During Magnus's quest , Annabeth's chance of a happy and normal life motivated him to go on with the quest, and Magnus knew Annabeth deserved better than planetary destruction.

When Magnus returned back to Valhalla, he called Annabeth (who was in California by the time) and told her how he was turning the Chase Mansion into a homeless shelter, and how Randolph's will was finalized. Annabeth was happy about it and said it was great, and that she needed good news. Magnus realized that Annabeth had been crying and asked what was wrong. Annabeth responded that she will be okay, and that she got bad news when she and Percy arrived [which was Jason's death (not specified in this book)]. He asked if Percy was okay and Annabeth said he was as fine as expected. Annabeth gave a broken laugh when Magnus told her to tell Percy he kept his butt clenched the entire trip, and she promised to tell Percy. Magnus told Annabeth to take care of herself and Annabeth promised to talk more the next time she saw him. Magnus felt that Annabeth had a chance of happy life. He also thought about asking Samirah al-Abbas if Einherjar can go to California.

9 from the Nine Worlds [ ]

Alex mentions Annabeth when saying Magnus is away visiting her, presumably in New Rome .

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Percy mentions that Annabeth is in Boston for a family emergency .

The Burning Maze [ ]

Grover mentioned Annabeth when ordering Plan Twenty-Three to escape Macro’s Military Madness alive.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

After a graduation party, she goes to the west coast with Percy and Grover. She retires from her role as counselor for Athena's Cabin to go to college and her half-brother Malcolm succeeds her.

After Apollo regains his godhood, he visits Annabeth and Percy at New Rome University . She explains how she is attending architecture classes at both New Rome University and University of California Berkeley. She expresses her sadness over Jason’s death and takes a blue chocolate chip cookie from Apollo when the god summons a plate of Sally's cookies.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star: A Nico di Angelo Adventure [ ]

When she and Percy are studying for an English test, they receive an Iris Message from Nico and Will, who explain their quest to go to Tartarus to save Iapetus . Annabeth and Percy express their guilt that they forgot about Bob. After the son of Poseidon and daughter of Athena fail to talk them out of it, they tell the sons of Hades and Apollo that their best chance at surviving Tartarus is to stick together.

Appearance [ ]

Annabeth is described to have tanned skin and a slender, athletic body. She has long honey-blond hair set in perfect princess curls, like Cinderella. Percy said that she "looked like a typical California girl, except that her stormy grey eyes ruined the image." As revealed in The Mark of Athena , she has a belly button despite not being born in the usual way. In the same novel, Aphrodite/Venus noted the beautiful young lady she's grown into.

Despite being taller than Percy originally, Annabeth is now shorter than him, standing at about 5'11 while Percy stands around 6'0. She gains a streak of grey in her hair from the pressure of holding up the sky in The Titan's Curse , but has since lost it by The Mark of Athena . By The Hammer of Thor , Annabeth has started growing out her hair and the way it caught in the sunlight briefly reminded Magnus of Sif .

Annabeth often wears a ponytail, an orange Camp Half-Blood t-shirt, and often wears her magical Yankee cap during fights, since it turns her invisible. She also wears her father's college ring and later a coral pendant that Percy gave her on a leather necklace with the clay beads that she earned every year at Camp Half-Blood. Because she came to camp at age 7, she would have 9 or 10 beads.

When under the effects of Beast Breath , Annabeth's head became that of a barn owl. However, she still had her own demigod thoughts.

Personality [ ]

Like her mother, Annabeth is an intellectual genius, wise and very witty. Her eyes look calculating, like she is analyzing whoever she is looking at during a first meeting, as if "thinking of the best way to take the person down in a fight" . She loves architecture and spends her free time designing new buildings or visiting national monuments. She has a soft side for those who seek knowledge. She sometimes gets too philosophical, which causes the less complicated Percy to glaze his eyes.

Annabeth is very strong-minded and stubborn, shown to be incredibly determined and daring. Much like Percy and Thalia, she has shown many signs of bravery, courage, and dauntlessness. One of her most impressive displays was in The Titan's Curse , where after holding the sky for hours and starting to die, she vehemently protested against Artemis for taking her burden. Even beings like Kronos acknowledged that she is very spirited and understood why Luke wanted to spare her from the destruction.

Though she is very kind-hearted, Annabeth can be very harsh and judgmental during first meetings, but she is very loyal to those who later win her approval. She isn't quick to give up on those she cares about: even after learning Luke was a traitor in The Lightning Thief , she never completely stops caring about him and quickly took the sky from him in The Titan's Curse to save him from death.

According to Sally Jackson , Annabeth is the most level-headed demigod she has ever met. She hardly ever shows her true feelings, often hiding worry or upsetness with raw or teasing anger. When she assumed that Percy was dead in The Battle of the Labyrinth , she said to the crowd "He was probably the bravest friend I ever had", but when he emerged and she figured out that he recuperated on Calypso 's island , she said he was "the single most annoying person I've ever met!"

Subsequently after Percy was taken by Hera, Annabeth became reckless whenever a situation arose concerning Percy. In addition, Annabeth has also developed a fear of being separated from Percy for extended periods of time. Though she expresses great relief upon seeing Percy again, that quickly turns to anger; as Annabeth is shown to judo-flip Percy. This is done whilst threatening Percy to never leave her again.

Fatal Flaw [ ]

Annabeth's fatal flaw is hubris , otherwise known as excessive pride: she thinks she can do anything and do it well, even building a world better than the gods. She believes that she could get her parents back together, build great monuments, and save Luke as shown in The Sea of Monsters . When Percy thinks that a world run by him would be terrible, Annabeth says he is lucky he doesn't have hubris, because she knows it is a really dangerous fatal flaw, which shows that she can recognize and acknowledges her mistakes.

Evidence of how her hubris can be a hindrance is seen during her confrontation with the Sphinx , where Annabeth was forced to answer several random questions from her. Despite answering all correctly, she notices that none of these questions are riddles, just random trivia, and demands a true challenge of her intelligence, though she knew that refusing to answer the riddles can result in her and her companions' losing their lives. Her actions effectively caused the Sphinx to attack them. In The Mark of Athena , Annabeth's arrogance leads her to mock Arachne after the weaver had already been captured. However, her insult toward Arachne leads the latter to thrash about in her prison, causing the floor of her layer to crack and break, weakening the already fragile structures. This ultimately causes both Annabeth and Percy to fall into Tartarus , along with Arachne.

In Wrath of the Triple Goddess , Annabeth summons a ghost army to repair the manse , only to have them turn on and nearly kill her, Percy, and Grover . Annabeth later apologizes to Percy for her fatal flaw almost getting them killed again.

Fears [ ]

The mother of her worst fear, Arachne

Like all other half-blood children of Athena , Annabeth has immense arachnophobia , freezing up just when she sees a spider or anything bearing a close resemblance to one. This fear is caused by Athena's bad history with Arachne , the mother of spiders who challenged Athena to see who could make the best tapestry. Both works were equal in beauty, but Athena couldn't stand the insult towards the Olympians, so she destroyed Arachne's tapestry and transformed her into a spider. Ever since then, Athena's children have been paranoid that every spider they see is out to get them - which is largely true as spiders are unusually aggressive to them. When she was young, the spiders would attack her at night and hide again when it was morning. Her stepmother would never believe her, thinking that the cobwebs were some sort of clever trick.

In The Lightning Thief , Percy said that Annabeth was "screaming her head off" when they were in the Thrill Ride O' Love ride to get Ares' Shield . In the same book, she stated that any spider within the radius of one mile would be able to find her. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , she screamed when the metal spider leading to Hephaestus' forge pops up. In The Demigod Files , she carried a bottle of anti-spider bug spray in her trunk. In The Mark of Athena , Annabeth used her Chinese spider cuffs to defeat Arachne, but it resulted in sending them both into Tartarus, along with Percy.

Annabeth was scared of Cyclopes because of an event in her childhood when Luke, Thalia, Grover, and herself were trapped by one when trying to make it to camp. The Cyclopes used Luke's voice for Thalia and Annabeth's voice for Luke. She states that when she found Luke, Thalia, and Grover, they were tied up and hanging from the ceiling. The Cyclopes used a variety of her friends' voice to try and lure her out into the open, using her father's voice when they finally located her. Annabeth says that she still has nightmares about the Cyclopes' voice and finds it very creepy when a Cyclops mimics another person's voice, such as when Tyson mimicked the voices he heard on the Princess Andromeda . Though not as scared of Cyclopes as she is of spiders, it still takes her most of The Sea of Monsters to be able to get close to Tyson, even though he was Percy's brother and helped her a lot throughout the book. However, she would later accept him along with other friendly Cyclopes.

Abilities and Tools [ ]

As a daughter of Athena , Annabeth is a fairly powerful demigod, although her abilities, being wisdom-related, are often more intellectually-based than other demigods who have special powers from their godly parents that are typically flashier. In The Mark of Athena , while comparing her powers to those of the other members of the Seven , Annabeth herself notes that she has no amazing powers other than her intelligence which is what Athena values the most.

In The Crown of Ptolemy , Sadie Kane told Annabeth her secret name, which let her temporarily use Egyptian Magic .

Her knife

Relationships [ ]

Love Interests [ ]

Annabeth with Percy Jackson , her boyfriend and best friend.

The growing relationship between Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase plays an important role in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. At the beginning of The Lightning Thief , Annabeth first meets Percy after he defeats the Minotaur and collapses outside the camp border, seeing this she has hopes that he is "the one" destined to take her on her first quest. Although after Percy makes a fool of himself to the Hermes' Cabin, she decides he can't be it and yells at him for it. She was shown to be very cold towards Percy and found him annoying at first, which only became worse after finding out his father was Poseidon, her mother's rival. However, Annabeth began to open up a little to Percy during their quest, especially after he helped her escape from mechanical spiders. Following this and opening up about their personal lives, Annabeth fully resolved that she considered Percy a friend and was even willing to sacrifice herself to allow him and his mother to leave the underworld. Despite this, she still doesn't like to show her feelings outright.

Annabeth likes Percy, which she hints at, but she still had lingering feelings of kinship towards Luke. At the very end of The Sea of Monsters , she kisses Percy on the cheek after they win the chariot race. In The Titan's Curse , there are suggestions of some romance between Annabeth and Percy, although this is complicated by her continuing belief in Luke despite his attempts to kill Percy numerous times and the fact that her mother disapproves of her "relationship" with Percy. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Annabeth finally expresses her feelings for Percy by kissing him good luck before she vanishes using her Yankee’s cap . When Percy returns, she is extremely jealous because she suspects he has been with Calypso, who is cursed to fall in love with any hero that lands on her island. In The Demigod Files , Annabeth asked Percy to the Fourth of July fireworks which is "the biggest dating event of the summer." During her interview, Annabeth states that Percy is courageous, has a sense of humor, and is good-looking ("but don't you dare tell him I said that"). She also says that he is oblivious to how people feel even when it is totally obvious. In The Last Olympian , Annabeth is similarly jealous at Percy for hanging out with Rachel and angrily tells him to go on the vacation with the former. In the same book, Annabeth states Percy "looks cute when he's worried" when he first checks on her after she took a knife that was meant for him. When he asks her why she did it, she admits she knows he would do the same for her. Percy trusts her to tell her where his Achilles heel is, his only weak spot. After the defeat of Kronos and saving of Luke's soul, Annabeth confides to Luke as he dies that she always saw him as a brother, but never loved him. When Percy was offered immortality by the Olympians, he saw that Annabeth was very pale and suspected she was having a panic similar to the one he had when he thought she was going to join the Hunters of Artemis.

Later, Annabeth and Percy share their third kiss after he tries to tell her how he feels about her and tells him that she will never make things easy for him. But a raid of campers led by Clarisse snoop on this and throw them into the camp lake. They come to a fourth kiss underwater in an air bubble made by Percy under the surface of the lake who says it was 'the best underwater kiss of all time'. They are together as of the end of the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. It is hinted that they might be married one day in the future as Annabeth said she wanted "to build something permanent" and Percy states that maybe they were "getting a good start together."

In The Demigod Diaries , Percy and Annabeth celebrate their one-month anniversary in Paris after they rescued George and Martha from Cacus . As a reward for rescuing them, Hermes teleported them to Paris, where they enjoy a dinner, a walk, and a boat ride. In The Lost Hero , it is said that Percy and Annabeth are still dating, but he goes missing for three days and Annabeth becomes very worried. She starts getting visions telling her to go to the Grand Canyon to find someone with one shoe. Annabeth thought that person would be Percy, her boyfriend, but instead it was Jason Grace , son of Jupiter , Zeus' Roman counterpart. She gets mad at him because she wants to find Percy instead. She yells at the sky saying, "What do you want from me? What have you done with him?" At the end of the book, it is revealed that Percy and Jason are switched because they are both war leaders of each camp, much to Annabeth's dismay. She says that she will join Jason, Piper McLean , and Leo Valdez on their next quest to go to Camp Jupiter to look for Percy and find the other possible demigods (the Roman ones who should be on the quest to cooperate with the Greek demigods against the Giants and the earth goddess Gaea on the War). In The Son of Neptune , Percy remembers that Annabeth kissed him whenever he did something stupid. He later mentions that she must have kissed him a lot - also hinting that he did stupid stuff a lot too. In The Mark of Athena , Annabeth appears to be nervous and excited to meet Percy, and she feels she is becoming reckless about her decisions as she is desperate to meet him. It is revealed that she had secretly harbored a crush on him since they were twelve years old, but only last summer had she properly fell for him. Annabeth thinks that her feelings for him seemed to have grown more "painfully intense". Annabeth tells Percy that she loves him, and has a fear of losing him completely and that they need to be together to be truly happy, as she is only at home with Percy.

In The House of Hades , Annabeth and Percy go through the most difficult challenges they have ever faced in their demigod lives, as they journey through the punishments of Tartarus. However, through the challenges and difficulties they faced, their relationship has become stronger. Annabeth even thinks of having children in the future as she promised Iapetus and Damasen that she will tell their stories and goodwill to "our" children. It is highly likely that the "our" refers to both Percy's and her children, and that she sees marriage and motherhood in her future. In The Blood of Olympus , Annabeth and Percy's relationship remains stable, continuing their partnership and romantic relationship during the war. They eventually get ready for New Rome's college and a life there together.

Luke Castellan , her childhood friend and crush turned into enemy

Annabeth started to like Luke when he gave her his knife on the streets when they traveled from monsters with Thalia. During the events of The Lightning Thief , Annabeth introduced Luke to Percy and acted shy around him. When Grover, Annabeth, and Percy sent an Iris message to camp, Luke appears on the other side of the rainbow and Annabeth immediately tries to clean herself off. After Luke betrayed the camp and almost killed Percy, she took it very hard.

In The Sea of Monsters , Luke offered her a place in the Titan Army and says that if Thalia were alive, she would have joined his side too. When Annabeth refused, she escaped and led Percy to a secret hideout, revealing how she met Luke and the promise that he and Thalia would be her new family. Since then, the relationship between Luke and Annabeth becomes a constant source of conflict between her and Percy. During the events of the next few books, she begins to show feelings for Percy, but every time Percy brought up the fact that they have to stop Luke, she would always defend him. Even during the events of The Titan's Curse when Percy believed that Luke was dead, Annabeth had a feeling that he wasn't.

In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Percy believes that Luke has become completely lost after forcing Percy to fight another demigod and almost kill Annabeth and Rachel Elizabeth Dare, making off handed remarks after they escaped about how evil Luke had become. His words greatly upset Annabeth, who began to yell at Percy for being so cold. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Luke was the "love" Annabeth had lost to a fate worse than death when he became the host of Kronos.

Friends [ ]

Grover Underwood , her close friend.

Grover Underwood is one of Annabeth's closest friends. He helped her get to Camp Half-Blood when she was only a child. They remained friends throughout their relationship and fought together often. Annabeth usually showed concern for him.

In the end of The Last Olympian when Percy is fighting Luke, Grover is holding Annabeth to protect her. While searching for the Athena Parthenos under Rome in The Mark of Athena , Annabeth used the survival skills Grover taught her to continue on through her underground quest.

Silena Beauregard , her late close friend.

Silena and Annabeth were very good friends in The Demigod Files . Annabeth and Silena plotted to get Charlie ask Silena to go to the fireworks and we're on the same team in Capture the Flag . Annabeth also never hesitated to call out Silena, when she told her to get a grip when she kept crying, wanting to save Charlie, saying that they will save him. Annabeth also told Silena the legend of The bronze dragon, which amazed her.

In The Last Olympian , Annabeth felt horrible for Silena when Charlie died and put her arm around her to comfort her during the war meeting. During the Battle of Manhattan , Silena cried when Annabeth was gravely injured and helped nurse her back to health before Percy and Will Solace arrived. Annabeth was devastated when Silena died and wanted to honor her, after she gave her life for them. Annabeth did not blame her for being a spy, and after learning what Luke did to her, causing her to completely turn her back on Luke.

Thalia Grace , her childhood best friend.

Annabeth met Thalia when she was seven, after running away. Annabeth was scared when she met, but Thalia comforted her and introduced herself. Thalia instantly wanted to protect her and get her clothes and food from a safe house. Thalia also thought caring for Annabeth was giving her a second chance after Halcyon Green sacrificed himself for the two. Annabeth ended up joining Luke and Thalia, fighting monsters and becoming close friends and family. Annabeth and Thalia became close and Thalia became protective of her, refusing to join the Hunters of Artemis , which meant leaving her, and they both had a shared love of Luke. They also took a lot of pictures during that time. Thalia told Percy that the best two years of her life were running around with Luke and Annabeth.

Eventually, they started traveling to Camp Half-Blood with Grover Underwood , a satyr . While they were traveling to camp, they got captured by Cyclops , and was separated from Thalia, and found her hanging from the ceiling. She saved her by stabbing a cyclops in the foot and untying Thalia, but being captured allowed monsters to catch up to them. When they arrived at Camp Half-Blood , Thalia sacrificed herself to save Luke, Grover, and Annabeth, but got turned into a tree in the process. Annabeth cried while watching Thalia die and was devastated, and blamed herself for what happened to Thalia, and became distrustful of all cyclops, including Tyson . When Thalia was revived due to the Golden Fleece , Annabeth was the first one to find her and stayed by her side in shock, but didn’t celebrate the moment because she wondered what it would mean for the future.

Thalia and Annabeth reconnected over the months, and went to the same boarding school together in New York, being very close again by December. Annabeth told Thalia a lot about architecture, having Thalia memorize a lot of facts about monuments. In The Titan's Curse , they went on a quest to rescue Nico and Bianca from Westover Hall . When Bianca and Nico disappeared, Annabeth immediately ran to get Thalia, showing how much she trusts her and respects her authority. Annabeth ended up sacrificing herself to save Thalia when the Manticore tried to attack her, causing Annabeth to fall off a cliff into darkness. Thalia was upset and angry over losing Annabeth, and blamed Percy for what happened to her, especially after Luke was lost too.

Thalia ended up going on the quest to rescue Annabeth, even though there was a risk that she might die in the prophecy. Thalia also helped everyone on the quest by finding the house of Annabeth's dad , because Annabeth gave it to her, showing how much Annabeth told Thalia. Later, they got to Mount Tam , Thalia demanded that Luke let Annabeth go and almost killed Luke to protect her, despite Annabeth's protest. After Annabeth was rescued, Annabeth was very supportive of Thalia joining the Hunters and squeezed her hand. Thalia also gave Annabeth a big hug after she joined.

Annabeth with Rachel Elizabeth Dare , her rival turned friend.

Annabeth and Rachel met in The Battle of the Labyrinth , and Annabeth was very jealous of her because she liked Percy. Nevertheless, she reluctantly let her help her and Percy go through the Labyrinth . Annabeth stared at Rachel for five minutes when she was a gold statue, and Annabeth wanted to push her over. Annabeth was very rude to Rachel and asked her if she always dressed in gold, and when Rachel said she played dumb, Annabeth asked "Was it hard?". Annabeth was also angry when she announced to everyone that she was half Greek god, and Annabeth called her "mortal girl" and said it wasn't a joke. Annabeth pretended to be polite to her when they entered the labyrinth, but she did not want her there, and was reluctant to believe that she could see through the Mist . However, Annabeth understood her when she said her parents wouldn't notice if she was gone. But later, Annabeth was back to her rude sarcasm and called her Sacagawea, which made Percy to lay off of her, and she was doing the best she can. Percy apologized to Rachel, saying Annabeth usually wasn't like this, but Rachel knew why: she was jealous of her.

However, Annabeth began to slowly warm up to Rachel, and trusted her to get a car for them, though she looked uneasy. When they got back in the Labyrinth, Annabeth tried to ask Rachel more about her background, but Rachel was evasive about it. Rachel and Annabeth then struck up a conversation about architecture, and they talked about different facades in buildings in New York. Annabeth and Rachel also both agreed that they needed to save Percy when he spied on Mount Othrys , which was the only thing they could agree on. But Annabeth also yelled at Rachel when she tried to stop Percy and her from fighting, but she didn't say what she was going to say and started sobbing. Annabeth was also mad when Tyson said that Rachel was pretty. Annabeth later pretended to tend to her Pegasus so she didn't have to say goodbye to Rachel.

In The Last Olympian , Annabeth was very jealous of Rachel and hated how she was spending so much time with Percy. Annabeth didn't trust her to help Percy, since she was just a mortal, and after Percy said that he didn't like their chances to win against Kronos , Annabeth said angrily that he should go hang out with Rachel then. Annabeth was furious when Rachel showed up at the Battle of Manhattan and asked what she was doing there, with her face red. But Annabeth reluctantly helped save Rachel from the falling helicopter. Rachel was grateful that Annabeth saved her life, but Annabeth told her to not get used to it and angrily asked what she was doing in a war zone. Rachel said she had to be there to help Percy and Annabeth excused herself, saying she had friends to tend to, and stormed off. Rachel felt guilty, and said she messed everything up. The next day, Annabeth's eyes looked red, showing she had cried after Rachel showed up. Annabeth was also jealous when she saw Rachel on Mount Olympus , and told Grover Underwood to find traps with her. But by the time she returned, she didn't seem angry anymore, just concerned.

Annabeth was later filled with dread when she found out that Rachel went to Half-Blood Hill , and went to see if she was okay with Percy and Nico. Annabeth was concerned about her and was curious as to how she got past the barriers. Annabeth was in disbelief after she became the new Oracle of Delphi , but didn't care too much, after she found out she couldn't date anybody, including Percy, and her jealousy finally subsided.

In The Lost Hero , Rachel and Annabeth had become good friends. Annabeth had Rachel come to Camp Half-Blood , and Rachel gave her a big hug, saying she had came as fast as she could. Annabeth and Rachel talked about Percy for a few minutes, and how they had no news about him, and then Annabeth introduced her to Piper . Rachel also reminded Annabeth to tell Piper how Mount Olympus had been closed. Rachel also bragged about Annabeth, telling Piper she was redesigning the thrones on Mount Olympus and that she was an amazing architect, and said she should see the salad bar. Later, after Piper passed out, Annabeth trusted Rachel to keep an eye on her while she took Jason to see Clovis . Later, Annabeth and Rachel both attended the war council with the others, and discussed together.

Tyson , Annabeth's good friend and brother of her boyfriend

Annabeth and Tyson met in The Sea of Monsters , and she asked Percy where she found him, and was disgusted by him. She was surprised to find out that he could talk. Tyson called Annabeth pretty and Annabeth screamed and called him gross, surprising Percy by how rude she was to him. Tyson thought they Annabeth was pretty and tried to touch her hair, but she slapped his hand away. She reluctantly took him to Camp Half-Blood , and let him inside the camp so he could help Percy. She also told Percy he was a cyclops . When it was revealed Tyson was Percy's brother, she told Percy to ignore the bullies and that it wasn't his fault his brother was a monster, making Percy angry even though he was rude to him also. Annabeth said that cyclops were the most deceitful and treacherous creatures and Percy called her out for treating him like this horrible thing. Annabeth didn't want Tyson to go on the quest to the Sea of Monsters with her, and when Tyson suggested going, Annabeth's voice panicked. Annabeth glared at Percy when he let Tyson go.

On the quest, Annabeth got to know Tyson more and learned how he could imitate people’s voices, which creeped her out. However, when Tyson allegedly drowned, Annabeth hoped that Tyson was alive and felt guilty, and realized she was wrong about Tyson and wished she could tell him that. Annabeth eventually confessed to Percy why she hated cyclops, and it was because they were the reason Thalia Grace died. By the time she made it to Polyphemus' Island , Annabeth had no animosity towards Tyson, and he helped heal her with the Golden Fleece . When they got back to camp, Tyson helped Percy and Annabeth win the chariot race, and Annabeth told the camp that they owed their lives to Tyson, and without him, they would've never saved Grover, got the fleece, or won the fleece.

In The Titan's Curse , Tyson thought that Annabeth was the coolest thing since peanut butter and loved her. He iris messaged Percy and asked him where Annabeth was. Percy didn't have the heart to tell him she was missing, so he just told him that she was busy. Tyson turn told Percy to say hi to Annabeth for him. Tyson was happy a few days later when he found out she was Safe.

In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Annabeth was happy to see Tyson again and they hung out near the canoe lake for awhile, though she was a little bit distracted, and during Capture the flag, Percy and Annabeth went missing and Tyson went to find them with Grover Underwood . The next day, Annabeth got chosen for a quest and she insisted that Tyson come along with Percy and Grover, making Percy happy she included him, and Tyson was happy to go on the quest with her. Annabeth was later against Tyson and Grover splitting up on the quest and was afraid that she would never see them again. When Annabeth found Tyson and Grover's footprints, she was insistent on finding them and said they were her friends. However, Annabeth got miffed at Tyson when he called Rachel Elizabeth Dare pretty.

In The Lost Hero and The Son of Neptune , Tyson helped Annabeth search for Percy, and Annabeth alerted Percy in an iris message that Tyson was close. He also told Percy that Annabeth would come for him soon, knowing about the mission, but pouted and his eye got misty when he said she wouldn't be coming for two more days. Tyson was excited when Annabeth and the Argo II showed up, yelling, "Yay!".

Piper McLean , one of Annabeth’s best friends.

Piper and Annabeth met for the first time when Annabeth rescued Piper, Jason , and Leo from the Grand Canyon in The Lost Hero . Piper was angry at Annabeth at first when she called her a Half-Blood, since she is mixed race, but she calmed down when Jason explained what it meant. Piper and Annabeth later took a walk, where Annabeth told Piper about camp and being a demigod. Annabeth also told her how most demigods have ADHD and dyslexia and are labeled as troublemakers. Annabeth also told Piper how her memories about Jason were manipulated by the Mist , and Piper told Annabeth all of her fake memories about Jason. Piper cried, and Annabeth comforted her, telling her she can relate losing a boyfriend. Annabeth also helped Piper pick out her weapon, Katoptris . Piper mentioned that Annabeth would make a cool friend in better times, and hoped she would be claimed by Athena , so they can be in the same cabin together. Annabeth was furious when Rachel told her that Hera took over her body.

As they spent more time together, they became friends by the end of the book, with Annabeth standing up for Piper when Drew called Piper dense, saying that she asked a fair question. Piper could also read Annabeth's emotions very easily. Piper also told Annabeth that the prophecy and her losing Percy are connected, but was not mad at Annabeth when she decided to not go on the quest. Piper thought that Annabeth would be a great friend in better times.

By The Mark of Athena , Piper and Annabeth had become close friends and helped build the Argo II with Jason and Leo, and had created an inside joke where they steal each other's breakfast. Annabeth also loved Piper's charmspeak , which filled her with the desire to have a long talk with her and drop her dagger. Annabeth knew Piper very well and could tell what she was feeling, and she hated how oblivious Jason was to Piper's jealousy towards Reyna. In return, Piper never had a better friend than Annabeth was, and was glad to see her happy with Percy near her. Annabeth confided in Piper how Percy being missing was consuming her every waking moment and tormenting her. Piper was a little jealous of Annabeth's relationship with Percy however, because they got along so easy, it made her heart ache, but it didn’t affect their friendship at all. Piper even stressed out about the Prophecy of Seven because she could imagine what Annabeth would be like if Percy died. Annabeth also looked to Piper first to heal Percy, Jason, and Leo, when they were possessed by Eidolons . Piper likes Annabeth the way she is, noted when Aphrodite wanted to give her a makeoverm, Piper couldn't think of anything wrong with her. Piper cannot imagine Annabeth doing anything vengeful. However, Piper became slightly worried at the notion that Annabeth would become vengeful towards Jason, and wished they were not rivals.

When the Argo II made it to Charleston, Piper, Annabeth, and Hazel decided to go on a girl's adventure, and Annabeth didn't mind hanging out with Piper. Annabeth could tell that Piper was afraid to tell her what she had seen in the blade of Katoptris . Piper was also the first person (plus Hazel) to find out about Annabeth's falling out with Minerva . Piper and Annabeth later sent a dream vision to Camp Half-Blood together, warning Chiron about the Romans. Piper began to greatly appreciate Annabeth even more on the voyage to Rome, when she appreciated how she and Jason began to trust each other and how she was taking up such a huge responsibility with the Mark of Athena . She reassured Annabeth when she was worried, saying that she was going to kick some serious booty, because she could tell she was terrified and trying to hide her terror. After Annabeth defeated Arachne , Piper knelt next to her and worried about her cast on her foot. Piper was devastated after Annabeth fell to Tartarus, but she knew it wasn't her fault or anyone elses.

In The House of Hades , Piper was sad and devastated about Annabeth being in Tartarus and shed some tears about her with Hazel. However, Piper was determined to rescue her friend at Epirus . While fighting Khione , Piper thought about what Annabeth would do. She revealed that she thought Annabeth was clever and great at devising plans, and didn't think she was as good as she was. When Piper first saw Annabeth again, she threw her arms around her and cried.

In The Blood of Olympus , they were closer than ever. Piper thought that Annabeth was the bravest person she ever met and had a lot of love for her friend. Annabeth had confided in Piper about the horrible things that happened in Tartarus, like Percy suffocating the goddess Akhlys . Annabeth and Piper went with Jason to Odysseus's Palace in Ithaca to find information regarding Gaea. The two later went to Sparta together to defeat the giant Mimas , and get the Makhai for the Physician's Cure . The two went to museums together while looking for him. While looking for Mimas, Piper could tell that Annabeth was worried about Percy and reassured her that Percy was smiling more and adjusting. Annabeth ended up breaking down and crying to Piper about how helpless she felt seeing the god Tartarus , her anguish of Percy disappearing, and how angry and scared she is about everything. Piper comforted her by talking to her and taking her hands as she cried. Annabeth then called Piper a good friend and said she’s angry at her for being annoyingly calm. When they made it to Mimas, Piper gave Annabeth advice to not think, just feel and only think about revenge for Bob and Damasen, and cupped her face and had their foreheads touch to calm her down. As for Piper, she fought while thinking about her love for Annabeth.

After Piper and Annabeth faced Mimas at Sparta, Annabeth began seeking Piper for advice and guidance more. They also learned they could tackle problems together from two different sides. When Kekrops arrived to lead them to Gaea, Piper and Annabeth both agreed that it was a trick. When Annabeth heard Piper's singing, she was amazed and told her it was incredible. Piper later encouraged Annabeth to talk about the family that she would miss, causing her to open up about her family in Boston and the family she used to resent. Piper thought how grateful she was to have boarded the Argo II because without it, she would've never became best friends with Annabeth. After she defeated Gaea, Piper, Annabeth, and Reyna became inseparable as they helped the two camps get along. Annabeth came to admire Piper as a mediator between conflicts. The two are still in contact, and meet up for monthly Argo II reunion parties.

Chiron , her mentor and friend.

Sally Jackson , Percy's mother and her friend.

Annabeth is close with Percy's mother . Sally treats Annabeth with kindness and believes that Annabeth is the most level-headed demigod to ever to hit the eighth grade. She also believes that she keeps Percy from getting killed. Percy secretly admits to this statement. In The Mark of Athena , Annabeth mentions often visiting Sally to keep both their hopes up that somewhere, Percy is still alive. Annabeth mentions crying together, hinting that the two of them grew close in a trying time.

Nico di Angelo , her friend.

Nico and Annabeth first meet in The Titan's Curse , when Annabeth helps save Nico from the Manticore , and ultimately ends up captured. Nico asked Percy if Annabeth was his girlfriend, frustrating him. When Annabeth came home, she kept the secret that Nico was the son of Hades from Chiron, and searched for him all spring, to no avail.

In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Annabeth was uneasy when she found out that Nico was communing with the dead, saying that spirits are untrustworthy advisors, and that they needed to go track down Nico in the Labyrinth. Annabeth became extremely worried when she thought Nico would come after Percy. When Annabeth and Percy found Nico at Geryon 's ranch, it is revealed that Nico, to some extent, blamed Annabeth for Bianca dying and had informed Geryon about her. Nevertheless, after Percy saved them from Geryon, Annabeth told Nico that Bianca's death wasn't Percy's fault and that Kronos would do anything to get Nico on his side, and that Bianca wouldn’t want to be brought back to life by him. But this made Nico more upset, telling Annabeth that she didn’t care about Bianca, and that if she did she would help him. But even after everything Nico said to her, Annabeth helped him summon Bianca's ghost and kept spirits away from him. She also told Nico that his sister was right when she told him that his anger will be his doom, and reminded him again that Kronos would do anything to get him on his side. The next morning, Annabeth tried to convince him to join the group, saying that Bianca just wanted him to be okay, and put her hand on his shoulder, but he brushed her off and walked away. After he left, Annabeth told Percy she was worried about him and scared he would talk to Minos again.

Two weeks after that, Annabeth got an iris message from Eurytion and learned he had left his ranch and went back into the maze, making her so worried about him she was queasy. She and Eurytion thought that he was talking to Minos again and knew he was in danger, afraid of what Minos wanted from him. However, Nico ended up choosing to side with Percy and try to save him, and Annabeth charged at Kelli , who had captured Nico in the first place, and Nico, in return, chose to save everyone, including Annabeth, when he declared himself the Ghost King, finally trusting Annabeth. After they escaped, Nico chose to accompany Annabeth a gift shop to buy a prism. When they went back into the labyrinth, Annabeth and Rachel chose to guard Nico while Percy went to see Luke . Nico and the girls agreed that they needed to help Percy or else he’d mess things up, and they all saved him, and in return, Nico saved everyone again, including Annabeth, by making black Stone rise in front of Kronos's fortress. When they all arrived back at Camp, Nico didn't want to stay, but when Annabeth put her hand on his shoulder and asked him to stay for her, Nico decided to stay, but only for her, possibly to mess with Percy. During the Battle of the Labyrinth , Annabeth, along with the others, helped Nico sit up as he healed.

In The Mark of Athena , it is revealed that Annabeth has always had mixed feelings about Nico di Angelo, and suspects that he had a crush on her ever since she rescued him from Westover Hall . However, Annabeth herself has no feelings for him beyond kinship, since he is too young, too moody, and has a certain darkness in him that makes Annabeth uneasy. Furthermore, she has always found it hard to "read" Nico and his actions. However, Annabeth still admits to feeling responsible for him, and can relate to feeling like Nico did after Bianca's death—a homeless orphan, drifting through the world alone. Annabeth was upset when she found out about Nico's imprisonment, and listened to the news sadly, shaking her head, but she wasn't surprised at all by the news, and figured out he would die on the Kalends of July. She also figured out rescuing him was a trap, but felt a responsibility to save him.

A few days later, when she was reunited with Nico in Arachne 's lair, Annabeth wasn't surprised that he was there, and felt it was only right for him to be there with him. Nico, in return, didn’t say much, but he told her the other side of the Doors of Death was Tartarus. Their reunion was cut short when Annabeth began falling into Tartarus, and Nico rushed to try to save her, using his strength to hobble in her direction. He even leaned over the chasm, reaching out to help her and Percy, to no avail. The last sounds Annabeth heard before falling was Nico and Hazel screaming for help. Later, when Nico arrived back on the ship, Nico reassured Leo that Percy Annabeth were not dead, and if they were he would feel it. He also said that Annabeth would make it through Tartarus, and that Percy would make it, especially with Annabeth on his side, showing he thought highly of the daughter of Athena . However, he was unsure if he could get her back safely.

In The House of Hades , the Argo II thinks that Nico has a crush on Annabeth, including Jason, who learned from Piper. However when he and Nico went to Croatia, he thought his "crush" was bigger than he thought and was a deeper love. At first, Nico tried to lie to Jason, saying he left Camp Half-Blood because he crushed on Annabeth, but then admitted that he wasn’t. Jason connected the dots and it is finally revealed that Nico was actually jealous of Annabeth, not in love with her, due to her relationship with Percy (his actual love interest), which is why Nico initially didn't want to be around her. Nevertheless, despite his jealousy, Nico led the demigods into the House of Hades to save Annabeth and Percy. After seeing Annabeth and Percy holding hands, Nico looks pained, showing that his secret crush on Percy is as strong as ever, although Hazel just thought it was because he went through Tartarus alone. As for Annabeth, in Tartarus, she was in disbelief when she found out Nico helped them, and said she had no idea what drove him, and couldn't figure him out. When he left with Reyna and Hedge, she wished I’m good luck, and he wished her good luck in return, without making eye contact.

In The Blood of Olympus , it is revealed that after her return from Tartarus , Annabeth approached Nico as he was tying up the Athena Parthenos . Nico was afraid she found out about his crush, but instead, she went out of her way to thank Nico for being nice to Iapetus (even before Percy did so), and telling the Titan that Percy is worth saving. While Nico is still very jealous of Annabeth, and wants to hate her, he cannot bring himself to, since Annabeth's gratitude was genuine and sincere, and she never overlooked or avoided Nico like most people. Hence, Nico admits to himself that it would have been far easier for him if she were a horrible person. Later in the book, when Hades reveals to Nico that one of the Seven is destined to die, the idea of any of them (even Annabeth) dying made him feel empty—like he was back in the dark Giants' Bronze Jar. By the end of the book, Nico finally finds the courage to tell Percy and Annabeth about his past crush on Percy, coming out for the first time. By that point, however, Nico has come to realize that Percy is not his type, and that he is genuinely happy for Percy and Annabeth. While Annabeth is certainly shocked at such an unexpected revelation from Nico, she smiles at the son of Hades and high-fives him. Nico is also happy when he finds out that Annabeth and Percy are going to college in New Rome the next year.

Hazel Levesque , her friend.

Hazel and Annabeth met in The Mark of Athena .Annabeth was initially jealous of Hazel for the adventures she had with Percy, and how protective he was of her. Annabeth even thought Hazel and Percy were a couple, but she dismissed the thought when she realized she was dating Frank Zhang . Annabeth was also very curious when she found out Hazel was the sister of Nico di Angelo , when she saw her holding a Ruby, and when she saw her looking at Leo sadly. Annabeth was also suspicious of Hazel when she covered up what Ella was saying, which was clearly a prophecy. However, Annabeth felt a glimmer of hope when Hazel rode Arion to distract the Romans. Later, Annabeth left a queasy Hazel at her cabin door to help Frank and Percy.

That night at dinner, Hazel defended Annabeth from an argument, and later got worried when she mentioned the The legend Reyna started mentioning . After, when Annabeth and Percy talked about Nico, Annabeth wanted to immediately talk to Hazel about it, showing the closeness of the two over a short amount of time. Annabeth later tried cheering up Hazel after she got into a fight with Jason and Leo by telling her funny stories about Percy. Later, when the Argo II reached Charleston, Annabeth went on a girls adventure with Piper McLean and Hazel by following a map to find a ghost, and empathized with Hazel when she saw that she was nervous, thinking about everything she must’ve seen in the Fields of Asphodel already. She didn’t mind hanging out with Hazel, even if she was creeped out by everything there. The two also found out about her falling out with Athena / Minerva from Aphrodite / Venus . Later, Hazel smiled at Annabeth when she saw her hug Percy, being supportive of the couple. Annabeth also promised to find Leo and Frank when Hazel got worried. The two interacted more and more on the ship, becoming close friends by the time they got to Rome.

After Annabeth outsmarted Arachne , Hazel began to admire her quick thinking, and was the first person to realize that Arachne’s rope was pulling her into Tartarus , yelling for her crewmates to cut Annabeth free. The last thing Annabeth heard before falling into Tartarus was Hazel crying for help. Hazel was extremely saddened for Annabeth falling into the pit but still trusted that she could save her.

In The House of Hades , Hazel missed Annabeth very much and regarded her as the leader of the seven, and the smartest demigod, the one with all the answers. She wanted to take initiative and make Annabeth proud of her. Hazel even trusted Hecate and decided to have the ship go the most dangerous route to Epirus just to ensure her survival. Hazel sobbed when she saw Percy and Annabeth come out from the Doors of Death limp as corpses, and demanded that Clytius let them go, and could feel Annabeth’s life force wane. Hazel was shocked when she saw Annabeth and Percy covered with black smoke and wanted nothing else but to save them from Pasiphaë and Clytius , which she did. When they returned to the ship, Annabeth demanded that Hazel stay with the Argo II because they needed her, and didn’t want her to get lost in the labyrinth.

Leo Valdez , her friend and crew member aboard the Argo II.

Leo and Annabeth first met in The Lost Hero , when she rescued Leo, Jason , and Piper from the Wilderness School , and knew about their protector, Gleeson Hedge . Leo wondered what her problem was and why she was so angry until he found out that her boyfriend, Percy Jackson , was missing. Annabeth tried to get Leo to get along with Butch Walker on the way back to Camp Half-Blood , saying that he is the best equestrian and great with the Pegasi . Annabeth was also the one to tell Leo that he had been claimed by Hephaestus , the god of blacksmiths and fire, when he thought his head was on fire. Annabeth was also fine with Leo accompanying Jason on his quest to save Hera .

By The Mark of Athena , Annabeth and Leo had become good friends and had helped build the Argo II . Annabeth thought Leo was seriously ADHD, even for demigod standards, and respected him as a mechanic. She thought he had an impish grin. As for Leo, he respected Annabeth as the leader and obeyed her orders, like when she told him not to put a smiley face on a scroll to the Romans at Camp Jupiter . Annabeth scared Leo and in return, Leo was scared to make her angry. He didn't find Annabeth attractive and ever since she had rescued him from the Grand Canyon, she changed his mind about blondes and now thought of them as much too smart and much too dangerous. Annabeth was shocked when Leo fired on Camp Jupiter, and thought that Leo would never do that and told Reyna that. In return, Leo was sad when he thought that Annabeth wouldn't trust him. However, Annabeth knew it couldn't have been Leo and agreed that it was most likely magic from Gaea or Octavian . Leo and Annabeth were the only people who could operate the engine room, so the two went in there a lot, with Annabeth going to help Leo in the engine room after he returned from seeing Narcissus , and the two staying behind in Kansas to make repairs after Leo needed Annabeth's help. Leo also joked around with Annabeth, and could not stop grinning when she spent the night in the stables with Percy. The two thought about each other, with Annabeth being worried when Leo went missing in the Atlantic and with Leo thinking about Annabeth when he saw the Pantheon in Rome. Annabeth also reassured Frank Zhang that Leo was a good guy and that he could trust him.

After Annabeth fell into Tartarus , Leo felt very guilty and was convinced that the code in his fortune cookie from Nemesis used to save Frank and Hazel sacrificed Percy and Annabeth, and blamed himself for them falling into Tartarus. Hazel reassured him that it wasn't his fault and Nico told him that Annabeth and Percy were not dead, and that they would make it through Tartarus. But he also was very determined to save them and head to Epirus . In The House of Hades , he still felt very guilty about her and Percy falling into Tartarus, but tried not to dwell on that thought since he knew moping around wouldn't bring them back. He still felt like the whole incident was his fault and blamed himself for not realising the cavern floor was unstable and not getting everyone to safety before dealing with the statue. Leo ended up being the one to save Annabeth and Percy from Tartarus by throwing a screwdriver and opening the mortal side of the Doors of Death . He was overjoyed at Annabeth and Percy's return and whooped in happiness when they came back safely.

In The Blood of Olympus , Leo respected and cared about Annabeth as a good friend, and she approved of Leo going to face Nike . While he was with Nike, he missed having Annabeth with him because she was good at talking. He also thought that Annabeth was no slouch. As for Annabeth, she liked Leo but would be a little strict with him as a leader, 
like when she also scolded Leo when he interrupted Piper while she was talking about her visions in Katoptris , and told him to be quiet, and when she almost objected with Leo meeting with Apollo and Artemis in Delos . Leo also called Annabeth "the architect", when they got to Epidaurus, and said she knew her stuff when she spotted where Asclepius lived. Annabeth also wished Leo good luck when he went to meet him. When the Argo II got to Athens, Leo, Frank, and Hazel talked strategy with Annabeth and planned a charge.

Leo ultimately ended up sacrificing himself for everyone on the crew, including Annabeth, to make sure no one else would die, and kept his secret from Annabeth. Annabeth was devastated when Leo died and was furious at Hazel and Frank for keeping it from her, but her rage dissipated when they cried and she agreed that it was exactly a plan Leo would've done. It is unknown if they met again, because when Leo visited Camp, Annabeth was in Boston visiting Magnus Chase .

Gleeson Hedge , her friend, mentor, and former chaperone.

Annabeth and Gleeson knew each other in The Lost Hero , and knew him as Piper and Leo's protector. Annabeth became very worried when he wasn't there when she rescued them and interrogated them to see where he was.

In The Mark of Athena , Coach Hedge and Annabeth were friends and Annabeth thought of Coach Hedge as a war crazed chaperone. On the morning before they arrived at Camp Jupiter , Annabeth pulled Coach aside and gave him the morning off to watch reruns of mixed martial arts championships, because she didn't want a war crazed chaperone wrecking havoc at Camp Jupiter. Annabeth also trusted him to sniff out intruders. As for Coach, he saw Annabeth as the leader of the Argo II and obeyed her orders, which was remarkable because he never obeyed anyone's orders. Coach Hedge was stubborn but was never crazy enough to defy Annabeth, even if he didn't want to do something, like when Annabeth ordered him to check if the fires were out, even though he already did it and grumbled, he did it anyway. However, he still felt a level of responsibility over Annabeth, even though she didn't take him seriously and wasn't worried about getting in trouble by him. He was furious when she spent the night in the stables with Percy, being so mad he knocked down a cup of apples with his bat, and said she was irresponsible and broke the rules, and thought she would have more common sense. After the incident, he was insistent that Percy and Annabeth don't go anywhere together and insisted that while he goes with Percy and Frank, the remaining crew watch Annabeth to make sure she is out of trouble. He even threatened to tie bells around their necks. By the end of the day though, he forgot about the incident, though she was wary to have him be alone with Percy.

Annabeth and Coach Hedge collaborated well together and they helped stop the Argo II from sinking in the middle of the Atlantic, and Annabeth saved him from Chrysaor 's bonds. It's also partially because of Coach Hedge Annabeth was freed, because he had ammo for ballistae, which was the reason she was freed in the first place. Coach Hedge was very guilty when Annabeth fell into Tartarus and paced around the death with tears in his eyes, pulling his goatee and slapping the side of his head, saying he should've blown up more stuff.

In The House of Hades , though he cared about Percy and Annabeth, he stayed behind from rescuing them because he wanted to come back alive for Mellie and his future kid. When they came back, he scowled, but he had a gleam in his eyes that showed that he was happy to see them. He asked Percy and Annabeth what took so long and said that it was about time, and that they kept their guest waiting. When he left with Reyna and Nico, he reassured Percy and Annabeth that he would get back to camp safely and bring the Athena Parthenos back, and see his baby.

Frank Zhang , her friend and crew mate aboard the Argo II.

Frank first learned about Annabeth in The Son of Neptune but they first formally met in The Mark of Athena . Annabeth thought that Frank was cute like an oversized cuddly panda bear and fought down a twinge of jealousy when she realized he was already close to Percy , and was suspicious when he and Hazel were hiding a prophecy concerning her from the camp. As for Frank, he was very amazed when he found out she was a daughter of Athena and looked at her as if she grew a third eye. Annabeth was also amazed when she found out that Frank could shapeshift. Annabeth quickly befriended Frank and trusted him to watch Leo after only knowing him for a few seconds. After Annaveth heard how Frank turned into a koi, she couldn't look at him the same again without thinking of him as a koi. Annabeth also told Leo to knock it off after he insulted Frank, when he said that he’s worth at least two or three Franks.

When the Argo II arrived in Charleston, Frank went to Annabeth's cabin and asked her to help him take of Chinese handcuffs, showing that Frank trusted Annabeth not to make fun of him. Annabeth was pleasantly surprised by the visit, thinking he was the least likely to come visit her, and she felt honored-she had a soft spot for people seeking knowledge and liked that he trusted her. Annabeth also knew that Frank was embarrassed after Leo kept teasing him, and she knew he didn't want to be a laughingstock. Frank was impressed when Annabeth pulled up a 3D model of Chinese handcuffs, and Annabeth explained to him how to escape them. Annabeth also reassured Frank that Leo didn’t intend to be mean to him, and that he just gets nervous about Frank due to his size and powers, and that deep down, he's a good person. Frank almost told Annabeth about his lifeline, but the dinner bell rang. Annabeth noted that Frank made her feel warm and fuzzy, like hot chocolate, and she could see how Hazel liked him. During their talk, Frank told Annabeth to "Keep it Simple" and Annabeth used that advice to help defeat Arachne , and so did the 3D model she made for Frank.

After Annabeth fell into Tartarus , Frank felt very guilty and said he wished he was paying attention, on the verge of tears. In The House of Hades , when Annabeth was gone, Frank missed her very much. Even though Mars screamed in his head to not trust her, Frank trusted Annabeth and thought she was kind, patient and helpful, even when he was distracted and acted like a buffoon. After Frank rescued Percy and Annabeth, he asked them what happened in Tartarus, and they said they would tell him, not not now, they weren't ready.

Jason Grace , her friend and crew mate aboard the Argo II.

Jason and Annabeth first meet in The Lost Hero , where Annabeth and Butch Walker save Leo, Piper, and Jason at the Grand Canyon, after she got a vision saying a boy with one shoe was the answer to finding Percy. Annabeth was immediately suspicious when she met Jason when he called Anemoi thuelai the Roman name and not the Greek name. Annabeth then thought that Jason did something to Percy when she realized that he only had one shoe. And when they made it to Camp Half-Blood , she became even more suspicious when he called Hephaestus his Roman name, Vulcan, how he had a tattoo burned into his skin, and how he had a vision of a woman saying to be freed from a prison, who said he was his patron. Annabeth even became angry at Jason when she found out that Chiron told him something he didn’t ever tell Annabeth, who knew all of his secrets. However, Annabeth agreed that Jason had a point when he wondered why his memory was taken, and helped see if she could hurt his memory back by taking him to see Clovis . Piper became suspicious when Jason and Annabeth were “hanging out” and was worried that they were attracted to each other.

Later, Jason sat next to Annabeth at the campfire, making Piper more jealous, and comforted him when he was embarrassed by Drew . Annabeth was also worried that the quest to save Hera was a trap, but Jason wanted to do it anyway, and she let him, but refused to go on the quest with him. Jason also thought that Annabeth had a distracted look, thinking a million things at once. Annabeth later walked in on Jason looking at pictures to check on him, and encouraged him and said he would do fine on the quest. She also told Jason that he was most likely a loner who survived fighting monsters before he arrived at Camp, though she was unsure where he got the tattoos. Jason also confided to Annabeth about his dream and Annabeth gave him advice for the quest. Annabeth even told Jason about Thalia and Luke, but their newfound friendship came to a halt when he said that Thalia was his sister, thinking that he was lying. After the quest, Jason and Annabeth discussed Camp Jupiter . Jason also described Reyna to her after.

In The Mark of Athena , it is revealed that even though Annabeth tried to hide it, he didn't trust him, and thought he acted and looked too perfect, and was afraid he would betray her to the Romans. She also couldn't look at him without getting a bitter taste in her mouth, because he reminded her of how much she missed Percy. Later, on the Argo II , when she noticed Jason looking at her, he made her nervous and she wondered if he was really on her side. However, it is revealed later that she didn't trust him due to whet happened with Minerva . On the other hand, Jason looked to Annabeth as a leader and a friend, and introduced her to Reyna, saying she usually doesn’t Judo flip people. However, the two grew closer and learned to trust each other throughout the book, and discussed the Mark of Athena together (the source of Greek/Roman hatred), without hostility or blame, amazing Piper, thinking that there was maybe hope between the two camps.

Later, after Annabeth defeated Arachne , Jason was amazed at what she did, all with a broken ankle. After she fell into Tartarus, Jason tried to dig through the rubble to find her and Percy, to no avail. He felt extremely guilty, thinking he should’ve flew down and saved them instead of the Athena Parthenos . However, he was determined to get to the House of Hades to save her and Percy. In The House of Hades , he took her place as leader of the Argo II.

In The Blood of Olympus , Jason promised to protect Annabeth, per Percy’s request, when they went to Ithaca . Jason described Annabeth as ready for any threat, and would kick any guy in the legs if they asked for a drink. When Beryl Grace appeared to Jason and tried to Charmspeak him, Annabeth tried to snap him out of it and told him that wasn't his mother anymore. After Jason was injured by Michael Varus , Annabeth freaked out over his injury and tried to heal him, her fingers trembling. Annabeth than sympathized with him about his mom, and told him about May Castellan , her voice trembling. She almost cried when she realized it was only a matter of time before Jason died, since he was stabbed with Imperial Gold. Annabeth helped weave a makeshift bed to take him home.

Reyna Ramírez-Arellano , enemy turned friend.

Reyna first learned about Annabeth in The Son of Neptune , where she learned that she was Percy's girlfriend. Annabeth also learned about Reyna from Jason in The Lost Hero . In the months after, Jason described Reyna to Annabeth. However, they actually met in The Sea of Monsters , when Reyna was on Circe's island, where Reyna did her makeup and hair. Annabeth helping Percy escape was the reason why Reyna made it to Camp Jupiter: she was kidnapped by pirates, escaped, and made it to Camp. Reyna didn't hold a grudge against Annabeth and actually admired her for what she did, since she never saw anyone refuse Circe's hospitality or outwit her. She thought she was brave and remembered her well, seeing why Percy cared for her.

Reyna and Annabeth first met in The Mark of Athena , and could easily single her out as the leader. She also recognized a look of hopefulness, worry, and fear that she couldn’t show in public, hid by a facade of bravery. After Annabeth Judo flipped Percy, Jason introduced her to Reyna, saying that Annabeth usually didn't Judo flip people. Reyna asked if she was sure that Annabeth wasn't a Roman or an Amazon, and Annabeth, not sure if that was a compliment, said that she only attacked Percy like that and shook Reyna's hand, which Reyna accepted. On multiple occasions, Annabeth noticed Reyna's strong romantic feelings for Jason Grace. When Reyna called Jason her colleague, Annabeth immediately noticed that Reyna considered Jason to be more than a colleague. Also, Annabeth noticed that Reyna had a "hungry sort of gleam" in her eyes when she reunited with Jason. When the group ate dinner together, Annabeth recognized that Reyna was deeply saddened to see Jason's relationship with Piper, and it made her eyes stormy, reflecting Reyna's pain and bitterness. Eventually, Octavian began insulting Annabeth, Reyna said that Annabeth was there in peace, then told her that Percy had spoken highly of her, which made Annabeth realize she tried to make a move on Percy.

Before Percy could invite Annabeth to walk around New Rome , Reyna asked to have a few words with Annabeth alone, giving her chills down her spine, reluctant to be alone and unarmed with a Roman leader. Annabeth believed that Reyna was bitter about being rejected by Jason and Percy, but she also suspected that the Praetor knew about the Mark of Athena. Reyna gave Annabeth a tour of new Rome, and told her about New Rome. When Annabeth scowled, Reyna laughed, and said she is definitely a warrior and has fire in her eyes. Annabeth apologized and Reyna said to not be sorry, and that she was a daughter of Bellona . Annabeth let Reyna take Aurum and Argentum with them and Reyna also gave Annabeth hot chocolate. Reyna also explained to Annabeth that it is shocking that she’s a daughter of Athena , since her Roman aspect, Minerva , didn't have children. As they talked, Annabeth realized that she met Reyna before, and Reyna said they did, at the house of Circe . Reyna then called Annabeth brave for refusing Circe’s hospitality, and that there was a reason why Percy liked her. Reyna then showed Annabeth to her favorite place: the Garden of Bacchus , and Reyna told Annabeth to tell her about Camp Half-Blood and show her she didn’t make a mistake by trusting her. Reyna admitted that she could not trust Piper due to her charmspeaking. Reyna also said that Jason has changed and no longer seems Roman to her. When Reyna spoke about Jason, Annabeth noticed that her voice sounded like broken glass. Annabeth spent her whole life learning to read people as a survival skill. Annabeth could sense that Reyna wanted Jason to "love her." Eventually, Annabeth felt bad for how lonely Reyna felt. But she knew Reyna didn't want pity, and Annabeth started to talk about her life story. In return, Reyna told Annabeth about her mother. Reyna began telling Annabeth about the Mark of Athena , until Leo, possessed by Eidolons , fired on Camp Jupiter. Reyna was angry and said that she betrayed her trust, but she realized she wasn’t aware of the treachery, but knew someone must pay.

After they left Camp Jupiter , Reyna was angry at Annabeth and the Argo II , and raced across the country with the legion to stop them. As for Annabeth, she wanted to explain everything to Reyna but she knew she wouldn't listen to her. Reyna and Annabeth met again in Charleston , when Annabeth and the others were fleeing from the Romans. Annabeth tried to tell Reyna that what happened was because of the eidolons, but Reyna told her to save the explanations for the trial. Annabeth then said that she shouldn't let Gaea drive the camps apart, and Reyna said that she knows that, but Octavian got the legion all riled up, and if she surrenders to her, she will be executed painfully and have an unfair trial, but it would stop further violence. Reyna said her surrender would be the better option than letting her legion destroy Camp Half-Blood. Annabeth said she would follow the Mark of Athena to Rome and fix the grudge between the Camps. At that moment, Annabeth noticed that Reyna had the same expression on her face when she found out about Jason's relationship with Piper. Annabeth recognized that Reyna felt betrayed by Jason, and she was too bitter, lonely and believed nothing could go right for her in the future. Despite this, Reyna reluctantly let her go and stalled Octavian, respecting her boldness, but she warned her that the next time they met, it would be in battle, ending the friendship for now.

In The House of Hades , Annabeth got a vision in Tartarus saying the Roman must bring the Athena Parthenos , and realized that Reyna was destined to bring it to Camp. Annabeth ended up sending a message from Tartarus to Rachel Elizabeth Dare to give to Reyna. Annabeth wondered if Reyna would trust her, but she hoped so. Reyna was dumbfounded when she got the note, but when her dogs proved the legend was true, she decided to believe Annabeth, and told Marcus to get Scipio from the stables: she was going to meet the Argo II and bring the statue to Camp, for Annabeth and the peace of the camps, showing how much she trusted her. When Reyna made it, Annabeth invited Reyna to join her and her friends for a picnic. Reyna and Annabeth talked and agreed that without her, Annabeth, Percy wouldn't make it out of a paper bag, making everyone laugh. Before Reyna left, Annabeth gave her the Mark of Athena coin for good luck. Their last exchange was a hug, and Reyna saying they will succeed, and Annabeth said she knew she would.

After tutoring Annabeth on an English assignment, the Daughter of Athena has grown close to her boyfriend’s stepfather . The two would often speak in Shakespearean English when they meet.

Hana is Annabeth's roommate from the School of Design , the two girls are close. Hana and Annabeth often discuss projects together with their other friends. Despite their closeness, Hana is critical of the daughter of Athena's boyfriend, something she ignores.

Dave is a friend of Annabeth from School of Design . The two often brain storm projects together with other friends. They find this helpful and enjoy the company.

Family [ ]

Athena , her mother

Annabeth has a close relationship with her mother despite meeting her very little, perhaps attributed to her poor relationships with her other family members. In the The Lightning Thief , she states that she had been to Olympus with some other campers at the solstice. There, Athena gave her the invisible Yankees cap as a twelfth birthday present. When the Sirens sang to her, she saw her father and her mother together again and happy.

Annabeth holds her mother in very high regard, often trying to follow her example. She would often carry out her actions in accordance to what she thinks Athena would do, stating "Athena always has a plan". Likewise, her mother trusts Annabeth and sees her daughter as "her pride and joy". They seem to discuss many things and have a set of plans in preparation for any catastrophe. Athena made Annabeth the new architect of Olympus after the damage caused during the Battle of Manhattan .

Growing up, Annabeth had several issues with her father . Because of her status as a demigod attracting monsters and knowing that he had been reluctant to take her in as a baby, Annabeth felt that he, along with the rest of her mortal family, hated her. This resulted in her running way from home at the age of seven and became a year-rounder at camp. While talking to Percy in The Lightning Thief , Annabeth told Percy that if it was her dad imprisoned by Hades, she would leave him to rot. Although after encouragement from Percy and remembering how her dad wrote a letter asking her to give him another chance, Annabeth decided to go back to him and her step-mother for the school year. When the Sirens sang to her in The Sea of Monsters , she saw her father and her mother together again and happy.

After some time, Annabeth reestablished contact and occasionally met with her father. They tried to make it work three times, with the third try finally working out for the most part. Around The Titan's Curse , it seems her relationship with Fredrick is getting better, especially after her father showed that he does care for her by helping Percy, Grover and Zoe find her.

At first, Annabeth had a terrible relationship with her step-mother . She would see the daughter of Athena as a danger to her children and would accuse her of purposefully endangering them when she was seven. Annabeth would soon run away from home.

Annabeth's relationship with her younger paternal half - brothers is currently unknown.

Magnus Chase , her paternal cousin.

Gods and Goddesses [ ]

Dionysus , the god of wine and madness and her camp director.

Hera , queen of the Olympians who dislikes Annabeth.

Annabeth has a terrible relationship with Hera. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , she helped Annabeth and her companions in their quest many times. However, at the end of the book Annabeth accuses her of wanting perfect families and not caring about their 'imperfect' family members. This enrages Hera who curses her after this, sending "intestinally challenged cows" after her. She tries to injure Annabeth with her statue at Olympus, though ends up trapping her stepdaughter Thalia.

Artemis , goddess of the hunt.

Poseidon , the god of the seas and her boyfriend's father.

Annabeth hasn't spoken to Poseidon directly, but in The Lightning Thief when talking about him with his demigod son Percy, she expressed very little respect for him as her mother's rival. She felt that she should dislike him and his children due to his rivalry with Athena, though she seemed to have lost this opinion over time, in part due to her friendship and eventual romance with his demigod son.

Other [ ]

Members of the Hunters of Artemis .

Alex Fierro , who she met in Boston.

Video Game [ ]

Annabeth is one of the main characters in the video game. Her attacks are mostly accurate Physical attacks. She also has a move that greatly increases Teamwork. She has no resistance or vulnerability to any type of moves.

Annabeth in The Lightning Thief video game

Etymology [ ]

Trivia [ ]

Gallery [ ]

References [ ]