This article is about the book series character. You may be looking for the film character or the TV character of the same name.

Athena

Biographical information

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Athena is the Greek virgin goddess of wisdom, civilization, mathematics, strategy, defensive warfare, crafts, the arts, skills, intelligence and brilliance. She is often portrayed as a companion of heroes and is the patron of heroic endeavor. Her Roman counterpart is Minerva .

Contents

History [ ]

Birth and Accession to the Olympians [ ]

Zeus , her father

Athena was born to Zeus , the king of Olympus , and his first wife, the Titaness Metis . A prophecy had once foretold that Metis would give birth to a daughter and then a son who would be more powerful than his father, which posed a problem as Metis was already pregnant with their first child. To prevent the prophecy from taking place, Zeus tricked Metis into taking the form of a fly and swallowed her whole. However, Metis took the form of intelligence and gave birth to a daughter, who grew inside her father's head. She taught her daughter how to transform into intelligence, before fading and becoming a noisy voice in Zeus' head.

Over time, Zeus began experiencing a terrible headache, so Hephaestus offered to put Zeus out of his misery by splitting open his head with an awl and hammer. According to Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Zeus commanded Hephaestus to cut open his head and sew it back up. While most of the other Olympians held Zeus down on his throne, Hephaestus created a fissure, thick enough for Athena to squeeze her way out, after which she grew into a full-size goddess wearing battle armor and holding a spear, much to the astonishment of the other gods. In some sources, it is said that Helios himself stopped in the sky in astonishment.

Despite the misgivings of the other gods, Zeus insisted that they should welcome Athena into their ranks. She officially became one of the Olympians as the Goddess of Wisdom and Warfare. She taught the Greeks numerous skills essential for their evolution, such as mathematics, utilizing the oxen to plow their fields, and artisan activities such as weaving . Despite her being the goddess of warfare, she didn't actually enjoy combat, but accepted it as an inevitable necessity at times. She was more focused on minimizing casualties and achieving victory through wise strategies. Through her actions (and because Zeus was now her father and mother), Athena quickly became the favorite child of Zeus, who constantly consults her for advice. In The Iliad, Ares in fact accuses Zeus of favoring Athena above the others.

Life with Pallas [ ]

Shortly after her emergence from her father's head, Zeus sent Athena to live with the nymphs of Lake Tritonis since their warlike nature appealed to her. She would get along famously with them. Under their tutelage, Athena would come to become a master of both armed and hand-to-hand combat. Her dearest friend (potentially girlfriend), however, was Pallas, the only nymph who could match her in combat.

Athena, sparring with the nymph Pallas

One day, the two engaged in a sparring match with such speed and intensity that Zeus, who happened to be watching them at the time, mistook it for a genuine mortal duel. Worried for his daughter's safety, he appeared in the sky right behind Athena and held up his fearsome Aegis shield, which greatly unnerved and startled Pallas. Without noticing her father's presence at first, Athena proceeded to disarm her friend of her javelin and counterattacked, stabbing at Pallas's gut. However, Pallas was too slow because she was still going over her shock, so Athena ended up accidentally fatally piercing her with her sword.

A devastated Athena honored her best friend with a sacred monument, building a wooden replica of Pallas and draping a small section of her Aegis cloak over its shoulders. This statue would eventually end up in the city of Troy, becoming known as the Palladium (meaning "Place of Pallas"), where women were allowed to claim sanctuary while men were forbidden from even looking at the statue. Since Pallas's statue greatly resembled Athena herself, people would eventually begin referring to the goddess herself as "Pallas Athena," which the goddess encouraged as it helped her keep Pallas's memory alive.

Creation of Pandora [ ]

When Zeus decided to create the irresistible Pandora in order to punish Epimetheus for his brother, Prometheus ', actions, Athena helped the girl by gifting her with wit and curiosity. In addition to that, she taught Pandora how to weave and make crafts of various types. This generous act helped Pandora utilize her time and get rid of boredom.

Rivalry with Poseidon [ ]

Poseidon, her rival.

For many eons, Athena and Poseidon developed a rivalry between them, which can be traced to the time when they competed for the position of patron of the city of Athens , called Attica at that time. Kekrops , the king of the city, asked the two gods to bestow a gift for the newly constructed city. Poseidon created a salt-water spring and horses, while Athena gave them the olive tree. Seeing that the olive tree was more useful than the salt-water spring and horse for the city,  Kekrops made Athena their patron goddess. A temple known as the Parthenon was dedicated to her and the new city took the name of Athens in her honor.

The next time which marked a conflict between the two Olympians was when Athena responded to the prayers of Coronis, whom Poseidon was trying to seduce. She saved the woman by transforming her into a raven. As a result, a furious Poseidon longed for revenge. Hence, he took his new lover, the priestess Medusa , into a temple of Athena. Furious with Poseidon and Medusa for doing disgusting acts in her temple, Athena turned Medusa into a hideous creature who had the additional curse of turning anyone who looked into her irresistible eyes into stone. As Medusa's sisters had helped her get inside the temple, they too were transformed. Collectively, the three sisters became known as the "Three Gorgons ." After receiving Medusa's Head as a sacrifice from her half-brother Perseus , Athena gave the head as a gift to Zeus, who sent it to Hephaestus in order to create the Aegis . Zeus would trust the shield to his daughter from time to time. In The Titan's Curse , Zeus gave the Aegis to Thalia Grace , his demigod daughter, as a gift. However, many sources also claim that the creation of Medusa was a blessing to her, as she had been Athena's favored priestess, and Poseidon had taken advantage of her within Athena's temple. Unable to punish Poseidon, Athena instead gave Medusa the ability to turn any man who tried to hurt her again into stone.

Another time both Athena and Poseidon were at odds was about the matter of the hero Odysseus . While Poseidon was furious with him for blinding his son Polyphemus , Athena favored Odysseus above all other mortals due to his always using cleverness instead of strength and was always willing to aid him when he needed it most. Though it seemed unlikely that Athena and Poseidon would ever cooperate, this did happen when the chariot was invented, as she had built the chariot itself and Poseidon had created the horses needed to pull it.

Births of Erikthonius and Daedalus [ ]

Hephaestus developed strong romantic feelings for Athena because their similar interests in tools and penchant for solving mechanical problems. Unfortunately for him, she became one of the Virgin Goddesses and didn't want to marry anyone. However, he persistently followed and flirted with her until he finally flung himself at her, wrapping his arms around her waist and tearfully burying his face in her skirt. In the process, some of his divine sweat and tears rubbed off on her bare leg, much to her chagrin. She kicked him away, snatched up a piece of cloth to wipe the godly moisture off of her, hurled the cloth off Olympus, and ran away from her persistent admirer.

Containing the essence of both gods, the cloth would subsequently transform into a mortal baby boy, who Athena found and named Erikthonius.  She placed her "son" into a wooden chest, along with a magically conjured serpent, with the intention of his godly qualities eventually being enhanced by the serpent and making him immortal . The snake soon turned into one of her sacred animals, along with the owl and cat. Athena took the chest to the Athenian Acropolis (her most sacred place) and gave it to the daughters of Kekrops while warning them not to open it. While the princesses agreed, they would be overcome with curiosity after only one night and opened the chest. After seeing Erikthonius and the serpent, the princesses became insane and promptly jumped off the side of the Acropolis' cliffs to their deaths. As the chest was opened, the spell was broken before Erikthonius could become immortal and the serpent slithered away. However, Athena would eventually take out her vengeance on Kekrops, whom a grown-up Erikthonius would banish and usurp his Athenian throne.

While she remained a virgin goddess, Athena had quite a few demigod children conceived when her divine thoughts met the mortal ingenuity of the men she favored, a love which she believed to be the of the purest kind. Her children are then born in the same way she was, quite literally making them brainchildren. One of her most famous demigod children would be Daedalus . As shown in The Battle of the Labyrinth , she blessed both her son and her grandson Perdix . She later punished the jealous Daedalus for killing Perdix by branding him with a partridge, the mark of a murderer. By doing this, she cursed her son to live a long and tortured life.

Inventing the Flute [ ]

One day while walking in the woods near Athens, Athena discovered a nest of hissing snakes, which gave her a sudden idea for a musical instrument because of its hissing. She would fashion it from a hollowed out reed with holes, thereby creating the first flute. Proud of her achievement, Athena took the flute up to Mount Olympus , eager to perform in front of the other gods. As soon as she started playing, however, Aphrodite , Hera , and Demeter began giggling and whispering to each other. Athena was enraged, and yelled at the goddesses. Demeter and Aphrodite eventually pointed out that Athena's facial features comically contorted while she played. An embarrassed Athena fled in humiliation and hurled the flute off of Olympus, cursing it to give the worst fortune to the next person to play it. Since the flute landed in Asia Minor, that person would end up being the satyr Marsyas , who was so stunned by the beautiful music that it created, since it had been filled with Athena's divine breath, that he actually challenged Apollo to a music competition. Due to her curse, Marsyas lost and was subsequently flayed alive by a victorious Apollo.

Rivalry with Arachne [ ]

Arachne , her nemesis.

A long time ago, the mortal weaver Arachne challenged Athena to see who could create the best tapestry. Athena disguised herself as an old woman and tried to warn Arachne that it would be foolishness to challenge a goddess, but Arachne persisted and stated that if she lost, she would accept any punishment. Enraged, Athena revealed herself and accepted the challenge as she herself had invented weaving. Each of them then made a tapestry: Athena's tapestry was of the gods together in glory and joy while Arachne's showed the gods making fools of themselves, though it was still beautiful. While Athena reluctantly admitted the contest was a tie, she was so infuriated by this deliberate insult to the gods that she destroyed the tapestry in rage and mercilessly beat on Arachne.

However, Athena became furious when the citizens laughed at her beating up Arachne and turned her wrath against them. Meanwhile, Arachne was filled with guilt and hung herself. After seeing Arachne's body, Athena felt responsible for her death and decided to do her a favor. She turned Arachne into a spider so that she and all her children would be expert weavers forever. In other versions of the myth, Athena transformed Arachne into a spider directly after the contest as part of Arachne's punishment.

In another version, Athena was chatting with some Ethiopian women, including Arachne, what life was on Mount Olympus, and the women were letting it just pass through their heads and forgetting it a minute later. But Arachne was the one who sucked it all in. Soon, Arachne boasted about her great weaving. Athena, filled with rage, came down from Olympus and challenged her to a weaving competition. In the end, both were equally good, and Athena ripped Arachne's (which was a weaving about how bad the gods were) weaving to shreds, and Arachne, recognizing her wrongs, hung herself from the ceiling, ready to drop to her death. Athena was a goddess that gave second chances, and she pitied Arachne, so consequentially, she became the world’s first spider.

Be it whatever reason, ever since then, every child Athena has suffered a deep fear of spiders. They are very paranoid that every spider they see is out to get them and avenge Arachne. Most of the time, this is true as spiders are shown to be hostile to them. Arachne’s name was borrowed into the English language, and “fear of spiders” became arachnophobia.

Meeting Tiresias [ ]

One night, Athena went to a swimming hole in central Greece for relaxation purposes. However, while the naked goddess stood bathing under a waterfall, she heard the cry of a mortal man named Tiresias, who had accidentally come across her. The startled and embarrassed Athena promptly blinded Tiresias. Since he was very apologetic, the goddess sent birds and snakes to lead and protect him (granting him the ability to understand their language) and gave him supernatural powers of precognition, which lead to Tiresias becoming a great prophet shortly thereafter.

Olympian Riot [ ]

Enraged at her husband's dictatorial ways, Hera decided to start a coup d'etat and gained support from other gods, including Poseidon, Apollo, and Athena herself. She provided unbreakable, tightening ropes to assist Hera in her plan. That evening, Apollo, Athena and Poseidon hid in the hall adjacent to the royal chambers, awaiting Hera's signal. As soon as Zeus had fallen asleep, all four of them quickly bound the King of Olympus with the magical ropes. Even chained up and completely immobilized, an infuriated Zeus looked very intimidating. Poseidon attempted to reason with his brother and demanded that Zeus be a better ruler, but Zeus refused, which prompted Hera to advocate leaving him chained up in his chambers until he agrees.

Shortly thereafter, the four Olympians departed for the Hall of the Gods for the first (and last) democratic meeting of the Olympian Council, which proved to be a very cumbersome task. The violently thrashing and bellowing King of Olympus was found by the Nereid Thetis. After convincing Zeus to not throw the rioters into Tartarus , Thetis then sought out the help of the Hekatonkheire Briares , who freed Zeus from Athena's magical ropes.

Subsequently, Zeus grabbed his Master Bolt and stormed into the throne room. After unleashing his divine wrath upon them, he punished almost all the rebels for their treason. Apollo and Poseidon were temporarily stripped of their godly powers and forced to work as laborers on Earth for years, while Hera was tied up and suspended on a rope across the Void of Chaos . Soon, Hera was freed by Hephaestus. Fortunately for her, Athena managed to completely evade Zeus's punishment by talking herself out of it, as well as due to their extremely close relationship (although it's quite possible Zeus didn't trust Athena as much as he used to since he gained a long-lasting distrust for Poseidon and Apollo from the riot and she was the one who wove the net the rioters used to capture Zeus, but eventually he got over it).

Trojan War [ ]

When Eris hurled the Apple of Discord into the wedding of Peleus and Thetis, bearing the inscription "For the fairest", Athena was one of the candidates who competed for it. The Trojan prince Paris was chosen to judge who was the most beautiful of the three goddesses: Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite. Athena offered to make Paris wiser in battle if he chose her. However, she lost to Aphrodite, for Paris preferred the offer of the love goddess. The prize was Helen, the Queen of Sparta.

Furious, Athena took the side of the Greeks in the 10-year long Trojan War along with Hera and Poseidon. She mostly helped Odysseus, whom she finally gave the idea of the Trojan Horse. She also helped the hero Diomedes defeat Ares in a duel. In the course of the war, she cursed Ajax the Lesser with madness.

After Zeus allowed the Olympians to directly participate in the war, Athena and Ares engaged in single combat, in which she emerged as the victor and forced her half-brother to flee the battlefield. When Aphrodite attempted to help him, Athena also defeated her. Athena would later assist Odysseus again multiple times during his long journey back home to Ithaca .

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Athena is seen when her daughter, Annabeth , is being lured by the Sirens , described as wearing hiking boots and jeans and casual clothing. She was sitting with Luke Castellan and Annabeth's father, Dr. Frederick Chase , supposedly at a picnic in the redesigned Manhattan that Annabeth designed.

The Titan's Curse [ ]

Athena disguises herself as a park ranger at the Hoover Dam and advises Percy on how to escape from the Skeleton Warriors (Percy later realized it was her since she had Annabeth's storm-gray eyes). It is likely that her desire to see her daughter Annabeth saved outweighed her misgivings of him (testifying that Athena truly loves Annabeth). After Percy escapes with Rachel Elizabeth Dare 's help, he, Thalia Grace , Zoë Nightshade and Grover Underwood get trapped on the dam, but are saved when the giant metal angel statues , given to Zeus by Athena, carry them off after Thalia prays to her father.

At the Winter Solstice , when Zeus asks the council if Percy should be left alive as he could be dangerous, Athena, Ares and Dionysus (half-heartedly) don't raise their hands to defend him, but they were out-ruled by the majority. She later tells Percy not to judge her too harshly and that he is a big risk to take. Percy replies by saying, " So you're saying you shouldn't take risks? " She concedes to his point, but then informs him of his Fatal Flaw : intense personal loyalty. Percy is understandably outraged by the thought that a desire to help those he loves could be considered a flaw, but Athena tells him that the most dangerous flaws are those that are good under the right circumstances and that as a hero of a prophecy his flaw could cause the downfall of the world. Percy wants to argue, but is left speechless, thinking "she is pretty darn smart". She leaves after warning him that she does not approve of his relationship with her daughter (based on her rivalry with Poseidon). Upon Annabeth finding Percy with her, Athena moves on and Annabeth realizes that her mother was giving him a hard time much to her grief.

The Last Olympian [ ]

During the Battle of Manhattan , Athena realizes that Typhon is a distraction that Kronos sent through the United States to get the gods away from Olympus so he could send his army to overtake it. She finally convinces Zeus to send Hermes to tell the demigods that it is a trap. Through Hermes, Athena tells Annabeth to "Try Plan 23 " and Percy to "Remember the rivers,". She also reminded him to stay away from her daughter, to the anger of both Percy and Annabeth. Despite her help, many demigods from Camp Half-Blood died in the process of defending their parents' thrones.

After the war, Athena tasks Annabeth as the designer to rebuild Olympus and praises her daughter's abilities in front of everyone, making Annabeth very proud. Athena votes for awarding Percy with immortality, though she turns to look at Annabeth when she says this and most likely noticed her daughter's stricken expression at the thought of losing Percy. After the council meeting, Athena privately talks to Percy saying that she could have been wrong about him, but not necessarily say she was. She also asked why Percy would give up immortality. He first says that he could not leave Annabeth before quickly adds that he couldn't leave his friend Grover either. Athena quickly tells Percy to "spare her" and disappears in a column of flames that singes his shirt after warning Percy she has given him the benefit of the doubt and not to "mess up".

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Mark of Athena [ ]

While flying to Camp Jupiter on the Argo II , Annabeth became nervous and wished she could pray to Athena, but that was impossible. She also mentioned a meeting with her mother about a month ago, where she was given the worst present of her life from her meeting. The Romans, after conquering the Greeks, decided to crush their rivals by stealing the Athena Parthenos , breaking both their and Athena's spirit. The Romans changed Athena and reduced her to a goddess of crafts and wisdom, taking away her title as a war goddess and replacing her with other gods like Bellona and Mithras , much to her anger. Since her counterpart, Minerva, was a strict maiden, Reyna , Octavian , Terminus , and the other Romans at New Rome were distraught to see her daughter Annabeth, calling it scandalous.

While on the Argo II on the way to Rome , Annabeth recalls her meeting with Athena prior to the beginning of the journey. Annabeth thought she saw her mother near Sweet in America where she was studying a map, wishing that Odysseus was there to aid her. Annabeth tried to talk to her, but she was in the form of Minerva and had no recollection of Annabeth as her daughter. She claimed that the Romans reduced her importance, but Annabeth states that Athena is not about revenge. As Minerva however, the goddess only seems to crave vengeance for how they disgraced her. When Annabeth asks for help on locating Percy, she says that since Percy has allied with the Romans, he should perish with them and then she hands Annabeth a coin . She then tells Annabeth to avenge her and to "follow the mark," before restating she needed to find the way home.

In Charleston , Aphrodite states that Athena was affected the most by the splitting of the Greek and Roman gods, because she was the most worshiped Greek god, being the patron of Athens itself. Later, in the lair of Arachne , Annabeth states that Arachne was better than Athena in the weaving of tapestries and starts to doubt her mom's ability as several of Arachne's weavings are better than those of her mother. After trapping the spider in a Chinese finger-cuff that she got Arachne to weave, Annabeth gloats on how the arachnid had done a great service to Athena by protecting the Athena Parthenos , but Arachne decides to destroy her lair instead of seeing Annabeth win. Before the floor completely caves in, the Argo II blasts a hole in the ceiling and saves Annabeth as Arachne fell into the pit to Tartarus . They load the statue of Athena onto the Argo II , but Arachne managed to pull Annabeth and Percy into the pit using her thread that was still attached to Annabeth.

The House of Hades [ ]

Athena appears in Annabeth 's dream while she is in Tartarus with Percy , telling her that she has done well in her quest to retrieve the Athena Parthenos . However, she also tells her that the statue has to be returned by the Romans at Camp Half-Blood , in order to seal the rift between both camps.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

When Reyna fights the giant Orion , her sheer bravery greatly impresses Athena, who gives her part of her Aegis for her cloak. The Aegis shields Reyna from a powerful blast and she is stunned when Athena speaks to her to tell her about giving her Aegis. During Reyna's subsequent attack on Orion, she can sense both Athena and Bellona supporting her, though neither appears in person to help. Instead, they give Reyna the strength she needs to kill Orion on her own. Reyna is able to use her Aegis-infused cloak to strangle Orion to death.

When Reyna, with the help of six pegasi , finally manages to place the Athena Parthenos on Half-Blood Hill , golden light ripples across the ground, seeping warmth into the bones of both Greek and Roman demigods and curing all of the Olympians (including Athena) of their split personalities. As a result, Athena promptly arrives in Athens to participate in the final battle with the Giants. She is dressed in full Greek battle armor and helps her daughter Annabeth slay Enceladus , after which Hades sends his body back to Tartarus . Athena's sanity is fully restored and no longer afflicted by her vengeful Roman counterpart, Minerva .

After the Giants' defeat, Athena is seen later rebuking the advancements of Hermes with her fearsome Aegis shield, and gives advice to the Olympian council (giving Jason a glance of approval) when the demigods are trying to decide on the best way to reach Camp Half-Blood in time to stop Gaea and the Romans from attacking. Poseidon agrees that "for once" she is right. She watches as Zeus hurls the Argo II back to Camp Half-Blood .

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Staff of Serapis [ ]

While facing the hybrid god Serapis , Annabeth finds out that Athena has removed all of her books from her backpack and left her a square of ambrosia and her magical Yankees cap instead. Annabeth is stunned as the cap hasn't worked since her argument with Minerva and realizes that if Athena herself is getting involved, Serapis must truly be a major threat. Using her restored cap, Annabeth and Sadie Kane are able to defeat Serapis.

After the battle, Annabeth plays with the cap and thinks about why Athena had given it back to her with its magic restored. Annabeth feels like Athena seems to be sending her a message: "there will always be threats too powerful to face head-on. You are not done with stealth. You must tread carefully here."

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Annabeth suggests that she can get her mother to write one of the godly letters of recommendation that Percy needs to get into New Rome University . However, while a letter of recommendation from the goddess of wisdom would likely go a long way, Athena had made it clear that she doesn't like Percy the few times that they've met, and Percy has to do three new quests for the gods at their own request anyways.

Later, Athena attends brunch with several other Olympians and Rhea at Zeus's Palace . Athena happens to catch Percy sneaking in on a pastry cart to return Ganymede's Chalice , but rather than exposing the demigod, much to his surprise she covers for him and gives Ganymede an excuse to leave the room with Percy so that Percy can give the god his chalice back.

Afterwards, Percy thanks Annabeth for the use of her Yankee's cap, having discovered that it isn't actually comfortable to use it. Percy notes that Annabeth seems to have accepted the way the world works according to Athena, even if Annabeth doesn't always agree with it and Percy doesn't always understand it. After hearing about Percy's encounter with her mother, Annabeth tells him that it means that Athena finally gets how serious her daughter is about Percy and a future with him and so Athena helped him for Annabeth's sake. Percy and Annabeth find the idea that Athena might be on their side a good sign that they'll make it with their future and the two remaining quests that Percy will have to do in order to get recommendation letters to New Rome University.

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

While looking for Hecuba , Percy, Annabeth and Grover enter Athens Square park where they encounter a statue of Athena near the entrance and Annabeth tells the statue of her mother that they're just looking for a hellhound . Percy waits for the statue to smack him upside the head, but it doesn't move, and Percy thinks that up on Olympus, Athena probably found it more amusing to keep him in suspense.

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Hammer of Thor [ ]

Magnus Chase mentioned her as the mother of his cousin Annabeth.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

As he looks at the Athena Parthenos, Apollo wonders what Athena would do in his place.

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

After resolving to use chemistry to break down a door in Commodus ' base, Apollo hopes Athena is watching so he can see that she's been using his brains with far more flair than she has. It is later said that he, unlike her, has always liked spiders.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

In the "Advance Commentary" on the back cover of the book, Athena stated that she was confident that Apollo would regain his place on Mount Olympus with "careful strategic planning."

She and the other Olympians watch Apollo during the Assault on Nero's Tower . She feels her brother is close to failure.

Two weeks later, she attends a meeting to welcome Apollo back to Olympus and she reveals she won the wager on his life, believing that he would win. After the meeting she leaves.

Appearance [ ]

In mythology, she is also described to have grey eyes, although some sources say they are blue. As a goddess, Athena is able to change her appearance at will, though she retains her stunning beauty and dignity no matter what physical manifestation she chooses.

In The Sea of Monsters , Percy sees a Siren -induced image of Athena and describes her as a beautiful blond woman with a strong resemblance to Annabeth. This is likely due because the Athena who appears in Sea of Monsters is only Annabeth's perception and not the actual one. Though she was casually dressed (blue jeans, a denim shirt, and hiking boots), there was something about her that radiated power.

In The Titan's Curse , Athena made her first appearance as a park ranger, with long black hair, pulled back in a ponytail and tinted glasses.

When Percy arrived on Olympus for second time, Athena was described as a beautiful woman in an elegant white dress. In The Blood of Olympus while helping her daughter battle Enceladus , Athena wears Imperial Gold armor overflowing white robes while wielding a spear and bronze Aegis shield, which sometimes change shape into a glowing mantle that glitters "as if woven through with filaments of Imperial Gold."

In Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Athena is described as wearing elegant flowing gray robes, Greek battle armor, and an Imperial Gold helmet on her head, which is decorated with pictures of gryphons and sphinxes. In Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes , Athena wears a long white sleeveless dress, and held a spear and rectangular shield in her hands, with both items "glowing with magic."

In Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes , Perseus described Athena's face is beautiful and regal but also somewhat scary, the way a warrior goddess should look. Unlike any dull grey item on the Gray Sisters island, her stormy grey eyes are bright and "full of fierce energy." Percy also realized through her startlingly, cold grey stare that she would make a terrible enemy. He immediately recognized the brunette goddess as Annabeth's mother, to the extent where he almost addressed Athena as her daughter. Athena was viewed to be one of the most beautiful goddesses of all, given how she was perfectly capable of attracting male attention, but she employs her powers to do horrible things to them if they don't leave on her first warning.

Personality [ ]

As the Goddess of Wisdom, Athena is exceptionally brilliant, quick-witted, astute, intelligent, wise, smart, logical, and disciplined. She always takes precautions before acting and is the type of person who disapproves of taking considerable risks, which was the reason for her voting against letting Percy live in The Titan's Curse . Though this obviously left him with a negative opinion of her and made her seem cold and calculating, he still conceded with the reasons for her perspective and her opinion of his weaknesses. He actually noted that she might be the worst enemy someone could make, for she would never give up or make a rash mistake simply because she hated someone. She has a soft side for those who seek knowledge and tries to help them as much as she can, examples of this include Odysseus, Perdix, and Frederick Chase , whom she protected and greatly supported. Despite her calm and reserved demeanor, she could become fiercely and intensely focused in battle duels, to the extent where one could easily believe that she and her sparring partner were actually fighting to the death. An example of this could be seen in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , where she sparred with her beloved friend Pallas so viciously that a concerned Zeus intervened.

Despite being the Goddess of War, Athena didn't actually enjoy combat but rather accepted it as an inevitable necessity at times. Unlike Ares, she was more focused on minimizing casualties while trying to achieve victory. She is renowned for her frequent assistance of heroes on their quests, even if those heroes weren't her own children, such as Reyna whom she grants part of her own Aegis and her strength in the battle with Orion . She is able to put aside personal grudges (at least for a time) to either help those who were in desperate need or to serve the greater good of all. As seen in Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes , despite Bellerophon being a son of Poseidon, she still assisted him to capture and tame Pegasus , which set him on the path to becoming a hero. She later helped Percy while he was in the Hoover Dam in The Titan's Curse, though she still voted against his survival.

Athena has a strong sense of justice that even her own children weren't exempt from, an example being how she punished Daedalus for killing Perdix by branding him with a partridge. This extended to those who had offended her, as shown by how, despite her great anger towards Arachne, she still found Arachne's fellow citizens, who had benefited from Arachne and still quickly turned on their neighbor after she mercilessly beat on Arachne, to be disgusting for having laughed at the girl. As far as gods go, she could be helpful and sympathetic even those who had initially offended her. This instance could be seen in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods : once she blinded the mortal Teiresias after he saw her bathing naked. However, after he explained his lack of nefarious intentions and how truly apologetic he was about the incident, her anger cooled and she gave him a staff and the ability to understand the language of the birds, though she didn't return his vision. Even against Arachne, who had earlier greatly offended her, after she hung herself in shame, Athena had enough compassion to turn her into a spider so she and her children could be expert weavers.

However, Athena can be extremely prideful and stern, having a dark side like the other deities: she transformed Medusa and her sisters into the fearsome Gorgons just to get back at Poseidon and cursed the very flute that she had created only because playing it grotesquely altered her facial features. After Paris picked Aphrodite as the most beautiful goddess instead of her or Hera, Athena took the side of the Greeks in the Trojan War and did everything within her power to bring him down, a testament to her vanity and capacity for vengeance. In The Mark of Athena , Annabeth admits that the first thing all of Athena's children learn is that "mom is the best at everything and that any thought to the contrary is not taken well", showing that even her children aren't immune to the effects of her vanity (hence why hubris is the fatal flaw of her children).

Despite her pride rivaling her father Zeus's, Athena is able to admit that she was in an error, something that wasn't within the nature of most deities or even remotely close. This was shown in The Last Olympian when she confessed to having been mistaken about Percy being a danger to the world (she was wrong about Percy, as he saved both his friends and the world). The fact that she disapproved of her daughter Annabeth's love for Percy was because of both his fatal flaw and because he was the son of her rival, displays Athena as biased. Although, out of affection and respect for Annabeth, she has given them her blessing, however reluctantly. In The Chalice of the Gods , Athena goes so far as to help Percy which Annabeth says means the goddess finally gets how serious her daughter is about the son of Poseidon.

Minerva [ ]

Athena can change into her Roman counterpart of Minerva. Unlike the other gods, she is less warlike and militaristic, being instead a goddess of crafts and wisdom. Because the Romans depicted Minerva as a more cerebral and demure goddess, she dislikes the Romans despite being a Roman god, as they took away all her military importance and stole her statue .
Minerva remains a virgin goddess in this form, but refrains from having any children at all, unlike Athena who is able to have "Brain Children."

Abilities [ ]

Athena is known to be one of the most powerful daughters of Zeus , hence being an extremely powerful goddess . Due to her considerable influence, she bears a greater level of worship than most of the Olympians, which contributes to her powers greatly. The only gods who surpass her are the six oldest Olympians (the Big Three , Hera , Demeter , and Hestia ). She is rivaled by both Apollo and Artemis .

Attributes [ ]

Gifts [ ]

Athena has shown to be the most active goddess, secretly protecting her children from monsters and giving gifts to heroes who earn her admiration.

Family [ ]

Annabeth Chase , her favorite child

Although she is a virgin goddess, Athena can conceive demigod children by joining her mind with her mortal lovers, which she considers to be the purest kind of love that one could give upon. Her demigod children are "gifts" to the men she favors. She loves all of her children and is actually the only known deity who claims demigods at birth. She often gives gifts to their children for their quests and protects them when they need help. Athena considers Annabeth Chase her greatest pride and joy. She deeply trusts her daughter, to the point they make strategies together in times of crisis. Since her daughter's love for Percy is unwavering, she reluctantly accepted their relationship and later helped Percy out rather than turning him in.

Mortal ​​​​​Children [ ]

Relationships [ ]

Gods [ ]

Zeus, her father.

Artemis , her half-sister and fellow virgin goddess.

Poseidon, her uncle and rival.

Ares, a fellow Olympian and her half-brother.

Aphrodite, a fellow Olympian.

Gallery [ ]

Trivia [ ]

References [ ]