Camp Half-Blood

Location

United States of America

Position

Ruler

Appearance

Camp Half-Blood is a Greek demigod training facility located on the north shore of Long Island. The camp is directed by the god Dionysus , who the campers call "Mr. D," and Chiron , a Centaur who is the activities director. It is also the Greek counterpart of Camp Jupiter , a Roman camp between Oakland, California and Berkley, California.

The camp has magical borders which are enforced by the Golden Fleece , retrieved by the satyr Grover Underwood , the Cyclops Tyson , and demigods Percy Jackson , Clarisse La Rue , and Annabeth Chase . Stolen from Polyphemus' island, it was placed on Thalia's Pine Tree , ensuring that no monster could get into camp. The Fleece stays on the tree, guarded by the dragon Peleus , its magical powers protecting the camp from monsters and invaders.

The camp is described as being the only safe place for half-bloods, although in The Heroes of Olympus series it is revealed that there is a similar camp for Roman demigods – Camp Jupiter, located near San Francisco.

The half-bloods live in cabins (one for each of the twelve Olympians ; later, many more cabins were added for minor gods and goddesses, such as Hecate, Hypnos, Iris, Nemesis, Hebe, Tyche, and Nike, Hades too but he's not a minor god after Percy's request in The Last Olympian ), and eat at the dining pavilion . There is also an archery field , a sword fighting arena, a climbing wall with lava for training, an amphitheater, stables, an armory, and the Big House .

The camp's cover name is Delphi Strawberry Service , a reference to the name of the Oracle of Delphi .

Contents

Address [ ]

Camp Half-Blood, Half-Blood Hill, Farm Road 3.141 Long Island, New York 11954

Interactive map A map of the camp.

The camp is located in Montauk , at the end of Long Island . Percy, his mother Sally Jackson , and Grover drive from their cabin at the beach in Montauk. It does not take them very long to get to camp. Besides, the two Jacksons frequently go on vacation to Montauk, where Sally and Poseidon met. However, the Camp is located on the North Shore of Long Island, referenced many times in the books, while Montauk is located on the South Shore. This makes the camp's true location uncertain. Percy says that the part of Long Island beach connecting to the camp is invisible to mortals, except for the ones who can see through the mist . Monsters and mortals can't enter, unless permitted from the inside. The address, 3.141, is believed to have originated from the number pi , which is named after the Greek letter.

The main entrance of the camp is through Half-Blood Hill , as mentioned in The Lightning Thief .

History [ ]

Chiron , the camp's activities director.

The first six students were brought to Chiron to train by Apollo back in Ancient Greece. Their names were Aeneas, who fought for Troy in the Trojan War, the first Jason, who captained the Argo, Achilles, who was dipped in the Styx, Atalanta, who was a renowned Huntress, Asclepius, Apollo's son, who went on to become the immortal god of medicine, and the first Perseus, who would kill Medusa.

According to various camp members, the camp has trained some very famous figures since then, including a few United States Presidents like George Washington , son of Athena . Camp Half-Blood started out in Ancient Greece at the foot of Mount Pelion, which was Chiron's home. As it grew in size, he had to move to the base of Mount Olympus, and one day Apollo showed up with a horde of satyrs to help demigods find their way to the training camp. Through the ages, Camp Half-Blood has moved with the gods and the core of Western Civilization.

It is a sanctuary for demigods, but before there were magical borders, things were a lot more dangerous. One night in Ancient Greece, a massive monster army stormed the camp, which was almost wiped from history that day, though the monster army was defeated with the combined effort of present campers as well as former campers coming to the camp's aid. The next morning, the gods granted Camp Half-Blood magical borders that have stayed there ever since.

Five years before Percy arrived at the camp, Thalia Grace , daughter of Zeus , came close to dying on the border, willing to sacrifice herself to allow her friends, Annabeth, Luke Castellan and Grover, to reach the safety of the camp. In her dying moments, her father Zeus took pity on her and turned her into a pine tree, sustaining her life-force within it. Her tree's position on the border enabled her spirit to strengthen the borders of the camp. She later returned to human form and joined the Hunters of Artemis . It is also mentioned in The Demigod Files that before the camp had magical borders, it was guarded by the Festus about 15 years before it became defective and disappeared into the woods. It is said that the bronze dragon was an offering of the Hephaestus cabin to their father, and that it protected the camp for approximately a decade before getting lost.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Percy, Annabeth and Grover set off to the west coast to recover Zeus ' main weapon, the Master Bolt , before the summer solstice, or else Zeus and Poseidon , Percy's father, would go to war. In the end, however, Percy manages to return the bolt to its owner, and returns to camp as a hero, much to the delight of other campers. However, after awarding Percy his first camper bead, Luke betrays everyone by revealing himself to have joined Kronos , the Titan Lord of Time and stolen the bolt, and attempts to poison Percy with a pit scorpion. Percy survives the encounter, collapsing after the Arachnid manages to give him a sting on his hand before he kills it, being saved by Annabeth and Chiron and returning home for the rest of the year, but not before Luke manages to escape and join his new master's remains.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

A quest to retrieve the Golden Fleece is given to Clarisse after Thalia's tree had been poisoned by Luke using elder python poison from the depths of Tartarus, which weakens the camp borders allowing monsters to have access to the camp putting all the demigods in danger. Annabeth, Percy and his Cyclops brother Tyson , not being invited, sneak off to join the quest because they fear that Clarisse would fail, teaming up with an initially obstinate and reluctant Clarisse and rescue both the fleece and Grover from Polyphemus , completely blinding him but who however celebrates on sinking their ship, and being rescued from Luke by Chiron and his Centaur relatives. The Fleece, which can make any land a paradise, heals Thalia's tree from near-death within a few minutes and, by the end of the night, separates Thalia's physical body from the tree.

Afterwards, it continues to maintain the borders at their usual strength, even without Thalia's spirit.

The Titan's Curse [ ]

Grover finds a pair of powerful demigods, Nico and Bianca di Angelo , whom are guarded by a fierce monster called a manticore at Westover Hall . Percy, Thalia, and Annabeth go to the demigods rescue. The group meet the Hunters , immortal maidens under Artemis's command, near the school. After a fight with the monster, during which Annabeth is kidnapped, the Hunters set up camp and Artemis asks for Bianca to join the Hunters, and she accepts. Camp Half-Blood is visited for a short time after Artemis has ordered her hunters to return to camp while she went on looking for a monster that the Titan army planned on using against the Olympians. Being an old tradition, the campers face the Hunters in a game of Capture the Flag , and are defeated for the 56th straight time, much to their and Chiron's dismay. While Percy and Thalia blame each other for the loss and get into a small fight, their quick fight ends when the Oracle appears and gives Zoë Nightshade , the lieutenant of the Hunters, a quest. Zoë begins to form a team for the quest, which excludes Percy, as she does not want any males on the team. That night, however, the Stoll brothers give one of the hunters that was meant to go on the quest a poisoned t-shirt as a prank, making her unable to join the quest. Nico, worried for his sister, asks Percy to follow them and make sure she stayed safe, which Percy promises to do to the best of his ability.

Percy and the surviving quest members eventually return to the camp, where Percy is left with the unfortunate task of telling Nico that his sister had passed away while saving the others during the quest. However, Skeleton Warriors manage to sneak inside the borders of the camp and attack the two. Nico then opens up the earth, which swallows the warriors into the Underworld , revealing himself and Bianca to be children of Hades and then runs away from the camp shouting that he hates Percy for lying to him and letting his sister die despite her dying a heroic death and saving the other members of the quest.

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Percy arrives at camp to find out that it has hired a new sword instructor named Quintus , who also has a pet hellhound named Mrs. O'Leary . During a new game that Quintus had invented, he sends several groups of two demigods each into the camp's woods to find a gold laurel, which is tied to one of six monsters in the woods. During the game, Percy and Annabeth find an entrance to the Labyrinth in between rocks in Zeus' Fist . Annabeth realizes that this passage can be used by the Titan Army to get past the camp's borders and attack from within. Annabeth leads a quest from the camp the next morning with Percy, Tyson, and Grover.

After Percy blows up Mount Saint Helens while running an errand for Hephaestus , whose forge was captured by telekhines, Annabeth eventually returns to camp to break the bad news to everyone, and the camp holds a funeral for Percy, who coincidentally arrives during the ceremony. Percy and Annabeth return to the Labyrinth with the aid of Rachel Elizabeth Dare , while Camp Half-Blood prepares for the arrival of the Titan Army. Percy and Annabeth return to camp after Quintus, showing himself to actually be Daedalus refuses to help for a little while after switching sides from the Titans and they prepare for battle along with a reconciled Nico, giving the news to the camp of the resurrection of Kronos in Luke's body with Ethan Nakamura 's allegiance and that Pan has died, passing on his spirit to all present at his deathbed and erging them to unite as one and protect the world. Monsters begin to pour out of the entrance, and with the arrival of Kampê on the battlefield, the demigod forces begin to lose the battle. The tide turns again, however, when Briares and Daedalus return with Mrs. O'Leary and crush Kampê with a pile of rocks,while Grover scares the army back into the labyrinth. Daedalus then sacrifices his life to destroy the entrance to the labyrinth at Camp Half-Blood and the labyrinth itself, entrusting Mrs. O'Leary to Percy and a laptop with details of all his inventions to Annabeth.  At a meeting, Dionysus informed the councilors that many minor gods decided to defect and join the Titan Army . This resulted with their children and all the unclaimed demigods to do the same as they feel enraged for not being claimed or not having a cabin representing their immortal parent at camp and would be forced to stay in the Hermes cabin for years.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Camp Half-Blood had experienced loss with demigods dying in battle, disappearing, or defecting and joining the Titans.  This left around seventy-five campers as Camp Half-Blood satyrs have a difficult time bringing new half-bloods to camp due to the increase activities of monsters.  Percy first arrives at camp after successfully destroying Princess Andromeda , but at the cost of Charles Beckendorf 's death. Chiron welcomes Percy back but explains that the gods are currently away from Olympus , as Typhon had managed to break free from his prison after Percy exploded Mt. Saint Helens. Percy realizes that the monster was a distraction to keep the gods away from Olympus, and that Kronos' main army would be attacking Olympus directly while the gods were away destroying Olympus easily. Nico also appears at camp to ask Percy if he had made a decision about his plan to bathe in the River Styx . Percy agrees to do it, and the two leave camp to go to the Underworld after Percy receives a customary blessing from his mother. Hades captures him however, but Nico frees him and Percy bathes at the River Styx. With the help of the blessing, Percy later defeats Hades and travels back to Manhattan. Percy later informs the camp about his plan and the attack on Manhattan , asking them all to come.  After the battle, Percy was offered immortality by the Olympians, but he refused and asks them to claim all demigods they have sired as soon as they reach thirteen or as soon they have reached camp. He also asks that Hades and the minor gods be respected and given a cabin for their children at camp.

With the demigods emerging victorious due to Luke sacrificing himself to stop Kronos' rise, everyone returns to camp in celebration. Because the gods uphold their promise, many new demigods keep appearing in many different places which Grover remarks that the Camp Half-Blood Satyrs can barely keep up.  Percy and Annabeth celebrate his birthday and officially become a couple in the mess hall after sharing their first real kiss. Several campers(led by Clarisse) see this and immediately pick the two up, and toss them in the lake. Percy, however, creates an air bubble under the water, allowing the two to kiss again. After the end of summer, Percy leaves camp with his parents and runs down Half-Blood Hill with Annabeth.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Jason Grace , Leo Valdez , and Piper McLean are taken back to Camp Half-Blood by Annabeth and Butch after they are attacked by Venti disguised as humans at Grand Canyon and Leo gets claimed by Hephaestus straight away. Annabeth gives Piper a tour of the camp and finds her a weapon . That night at the campfire , Piper is claimed by Aphrodite , while Jason shows off his abilities to control lightning showing that he has been claimed by Zeus/Jupiter. The Oracle also shares a prophecy with the rest of the camp, but it is specifically directed at Jason. In order to be allowed to go on the quest, Leo goes into the woods and finds the Festus , which leads him back to Bunker 9 , where Leo spends all night adding wings to the dragon. The next morning, Leo uses the dragon to take Piper and Jason on their quest.

A pegasus, which is shown on Camp Half-Blood shirts.

After the quest, the trio returns to the camp. Leo and Piper become the heads of their cabins, and Leo shows everyone the existence Bunker 9. Chiron, once shown to the bunker, tells the other campers that the bunker was once used ages ago during the American Civil War - which he states was just as disastrous for demigods as it was for mortals - when the Greek and Roman demigods fought one another.

The Son of Neptune [ ]

Percy Jackson finds himself at Camp Jupiter and has lost all his memories.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

While Camp Half-Blood is not shown, Leo Valdez is said to have installed monitors on board the Argo II that have real time video of the camp. Later, after Leo had accidentally attacked Camp Jupiter and the seven of the prophecy are on board the Argo II , he wonders if it was a good idea to have installed the monitors. Leo wonders if they made the Greek demigods homesick after seeing Percy looking at one for a long time, gazing at the sunset over Half-Blood Hill . He also wonders if Camp Half-Blood seemed strange to the Roman demigods, as it was very different from Camp Jupiter .

As the Romans and the Greeks fight because of the actions of the eidolons , Annabeth runs into Reyna , who tells her that if she returned to Camp Jupiter and faced trial, which would result in her execution, there could possibly be some kind of peace. However, if she continued to Rome , the Romans would find and wage war against Camp Half-Blood. Annabeth goes off to Rome, asking Reyna to at least slow the Legion down.

Later, Piper McLean sees a vision of Octavian in Katoptris , showing him planning invasion routes into Camp Half-Blood.

The House of Hades [ ]

While traveling through Tartarus , Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase come across a shrine with food that they realize is from Camp Half-Blood, having arrived when campers sacrificed food to the gods. Using Riptide as a pen, Annabeth writes a message to Connor Stoll to give to Rachel Elizabeth Dare , instructing her to contact the Romans and have Reyna transport the Athena Parthenos from Greece to Camp Half-Blood as a gesture of peace between both sides. Rachel, accompanied by Grover Underwood , later meets with the Romans and convinces Reyna to undertake the trip. Although Reyna orders Octavian to leave the camp alone until she returns, he immediately disregards her orders and begins preparing an invasion of Camp Half-Blood.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

The Romans have set up base camp outside the camp grounds and wait for the first of August to strike . Three campers, Will Solace , Lou Ellen , and Cecil try to sabotage the Roman's onagers but they are spotted despite the fifth and fourth cohorts causing a disruption throughout the rest of the ranks. The Greek camp and its allies prepare for battle when Reyna returns the Athena Parthenos , causing peace between the two sides.

However, Gaea finally wakes and attacks the two sides . They join forces to fight off the monsters and rescue the trapped cohorts. During the battle, the Seven finally return on the Argo II with Leo Valdez , Festus , Jason Grace and Piper McLean carrying the primordial goddess into the sky and charmspeaking her to sleep before Gaea is atomized by Leo's supernova explosion of fire and an onager shot from Octavian who gets caught up in it as well. In the aftermath, Gaea is determined to have been scattered like Kronos , ending the war.

In the aftermath, the two camps make peace and form an alliance. Jason, having promised Kymopoleia to honor all of the gods, remains at Camp Half-Blood with the intention to travel between the two camps. Having originally decided to leave both camps for good as he didn't feel like he belongs, Nico di Angelo changes his mind and moves into Camp Half-Blood full time.

The Kane Chronicles [ ]

The Serpent's Shadow [ ]

Sadie Kane mentions magic in Long Island, indicating Camp-Half Blood.

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Sword of Summer [ ]

When Annabeth runs into her cousin Magnus Chase and the latter claims that someone is after him and that he needs to keep a low profile, she tells him she "knows a safe place (indicating the camp)" if he needs somewhere to stay. Magnus, however, declines and tells her that he'll let her know everything one day.

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Son of Sobek [ ]

Percy Jackson mentions that a couple of Camp Half-Blood's pegasi were eaten by the petsuchos , leading to him investigating the monster. Egyptian magician Carter Kane dubs Percy "Camper Boy" because of the Camp Half-Blood T-shirt that he's wearing throughout the battle. After defeating the petsuchos , the two agree that it's best that they limit how much that they know about each other, although Carter correctly guesses that Percy is from some kind of a camp given his T-shirt.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Percy Jackson intends to keep his quests to get letters of recommendation in order to get into New Rome University from his friends at Camp Half-Blood.

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

After being assigned to house and pet-sit for Hecate , Percy Jackson , Annabeth Chase and Grover Underwood invite their friends from Camp Half-Blood to attend a Halloween party at the mansion while the goddess of magic is away. In the chaos that follows, the trio forgets to cancel the party.

During this time, Chiron works as a substitute teacher for Alternative High School and is later mentioned to be serving as a substitute teacher for Paul Blofis at Goode High School while he's got jury duty.

While Percy, Annabeth, Grover, Hecuba and Gale are fighting Peter Stuyvesant and his army of ghosts , Camp Half-Blood arrives for the party just in time to help them. Argus and the other demigods hold off the ghosts, giving Percy and Annabeth the chance to banish them. Afterwards, the campers enjoy celebrating Halloween in the goddess of magic's home. While Hecate finds out, she's not upset and had actually expected Percy and Annabeth to throw a Halloween party for their friends.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Map of CHB during The Trials of Apollo.

Camp Half-Blood is the primary setting of the book. The now-mortal Apollo arrives at camp with Meg McCaffrey , who is claimed as a daughter of Demeter , where they learn that campers have mysteriously gone missing. During the six months that have passed since the Battle of Half-Blood Hill , all forms of demigod communication have been mysteriously cut off, isolating Camp Half-Blood from Camp Jupiter . In addition, Rachel Elizabeth Dare 's powers of prophecy as the Oracle of Delphi no longer works due to Python occupying Delphi . Rachel returns to camp after having run her own investigation into the previous two wars that the camp was involved in, discovering that the mysterious Triumvirate Holdings had been manipulating events during those wars. During Apollo's time at the camp, the campers engage in a Three-Legged Death Race through the Labyrinth , leading to Apollo and Meg accidentally visiting Delphi and witnessing Nero talking to Python.

A few days later it is discovered that Nero has been kidnapping the campers and he threatens to kill them if Apollo does not help Meg open the gates to the Grove of Dodona . When Nero's hostages are freed, they fly back to camp to defend it from the Colossus Neronis joined by Percy Jackson who arrives on a weekend visit with Mrs. O'Leary . Due to the low number of campers during the regular school year, the camp's defenses are weakened, including the protection provided by the Athena Parthenos . Finally, Apollo manages to infect the automaton with hay fever by using a plague arrow, causing it to literally sneeze its head off. As an unintended side effect, however, the camp is infected with an outbreak of hay fever.

Shortly after the automaton's defeat, Leo Valdez returns to Camp Half-Blood with Calypso and Festus for the first time since his death and resurrection six months before, finally guided back by Harley 's Home-Beacon . Having received a prophecy from the Grove of Dodona, Apollo departs with Leo, Calypso and Festus to continue his quest to restore the Oracles and regain his godhood.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

Six months after leaving on their quest, Meg and Apollo return to the camp before they go to the city to try and take out Nero and liberate Delphi . By this point, Dionysus has returned to the camp while Chiron is off at a joint task force meeting with Mimir and Bast about something that is threatening all three pantheons. With it now being summer, Camp Half-Blood is filled with both the summer regulars and dozens of newly-discovered demigods from all over the world, many still accompanied by the satyrs that had found them. Although demigod communications have been restored by the death of Harpocrates , they remain spotty and the campers don't have confirmation on the death of Jason Grace until Apollo confirms it, Nico di Angelo having previously sensed his friend dying. Nero sends Camp Half-Blood an ultimatum demanding the surrender of Meg and Apollo within forty-eight hours or he will destroy New York City. Before Meg and Apollo leave with Nico and Will Solace to meet the troglodytes , Kayla Knowles and Austin Lake promise them that the camp's forces will be on standby for a signal from them to attack.

Later, Rachel Elizabeth Dare manages to contact Camp Half-Blood for help via an email to Chiron. During the Battle of Nero's Tower the forces of Camp Half-Blood come to the aid of Apollo, Meg, Will, Nico and the troglodytes, led by Chiron and carried to Nero's Tower on the pegasi . Even the younger campers are brought along under the guise of a camp field trip. By landing the camp's pegasi on the Tower's terrace, the demigods are able to prevent a suicidal frontal assault and engage Nero's forces throughout the Tower with great success. After Nero's death, Apollo notices Sherman Yang discussing the division of the spoils of war between the troglodytes and Camp Half-Blood and he suspects that Camp Half-Blood is about to be flush with Greek Fire and Imperial Gold weapons. In addition, the campers begin helping their former enemies to deal with the aftermath, patching up their wounds and aiding the Imperial demigods in adapting to the change in whatever ways that they can.

Two weeks, later Apollo returns to the camp after regaining his godhood and spends the day. Python 's destruction has restored Rachel's powers as the Oracle of Delphi , leaving the campers with prophecies to guide their quests once again.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star: A Nico di Angelo Adventure [ ]

Before Nico di Angelo and Will Solace depart for their quest to Tartarus , all of the campers go home for the school year, leaving Camp Half-Blood empty aside from Nico, Will, Chiron and Dionysus . Nico notices that Chiron seems to be a bit lost as this is the first time that Nico can remember there being no other campers there which they all find weird, but Chiron acknowledges that with all that's happened in the last few years, it makes sense for the demigods to want to go home to their families or to see the world.

After returning from Tartarus with Bob and Small Bob , Nico and Will arrive at Camp Half-Blood where a relieved Chiron tells them that they've been gone for a week on Earth. The two settle back into camp with the caceodemons that they brought home with them.

The Court of the Dead [ ]

A few months after their quest, Nico and Will have been helping an influx of new campers settle in with new campers arriving almost every week even before the start of the summer. Dionysus blames this on Percy Jackson forcing the gods to claim all of their children. As the most veteran demigods still at camp, the sons of Hades and Apollo have been taking up some of the orientation duties. Nico's non-violent resistance movement to the rules about the campers sitting only with their cabins results in the rule being abolished without much pushback from Chiron or Dionysus, allowing campers to sit wherever they want. However, an Iris Message from Hazel Levesque calls Nico and Will to Camp Jupiter .

Nico and Will later return to Camp Half-Blood where Dionysus has been reunited with his mother Semele .

The East and the West [ ]

According to Chiron , the Greek desecration of Troy was what split demigods apart in the first place. Aeneas, the first Roman demigod and son of Venus/Aphrodite, was the last surviving prince of Troy. He fled to Italy , where the Latins (the ancestors of the Romans) lived. Aeneas was the first Roman demigod, and he was soon followed by many others. These Romans later lived in the West of North America, reputedly in the Bay Area of California. Later on, during the 1860s, the Romans, living in the Bay Area, fought with the Greeks, who were, even then, living at the camp. This was the deadliest conflict between the Greeks and the Romans, mirroring the American Civil War, although many other wars took place between the two sides.

Unification [ ]

Camp Jupiter.

The following winter after the events of The Last Olympian , new demigods show up at Camp Half-Blood. During a field trip for a juvenile detention facility, the " Wilderness School ", three Storm Spirit attack a satyr protector, Gleeson Hedge , and three demigods. Annabeth Chase , a prominent camper at the camp, along with Butch , rescue these three demigods. One is revealed to be the son of Hephaestus , Leo Valdez , and another is revealed to be the daughter of Aphrodite , Piper McLean . However, it is the revelation of the third demigod's identity that shocks everyone the most: the new demigod, a son of Jupiter named Jason Grace , is the brother of Thalia Grace . However, he keeps calling the gods by their Roman names. He is given a quest, along with Leo and Piper, to save Hera , who has been trapped by the giants. After the quest in The Lost Hero , the Roman camp 's existence is discovered by the Greeks because of Jason, and these two camps will have to unite to fight the Giants, Gaea 's most terrible children, who threaten the very roots of Western Civilization itself, Greece.

In The Blood of Olympus , the two camps are finally united following the Siege of Camp Half-Blood and the Battle of Half-Blood Hill in which the Athena Parthenos is delivered to camp by praetor Reyna Ramírez-Arellano and the Greeks and the Romans unite to defeat Gaea. The Greeks and the Romans officially make peace after this.

In The Court of the Dead , Roman praetor Hazel Levesque calls upon Nico di Angelo and Will Solace to help the Romans with a situation. Savannah , a legacy of Minerva , plans to visit Camp Half-Blood in the future to teach Hephaestus's Cabin how to create the new form of Iris Message she's developed after Chiron expresses an interest in it, sharing the Romans' innovation with the Greeks.

Camp Grounds [ ]

Divine Cabins [ ]

The original twelve cabins at Camp Half-Blood.

According to Apollo, each cabin has around six bunk beds each, allowing each cabin to house twelve campers. There were originally twelve cabins (all the Olympian gods except for Hades and minor gods) but after the Second Titan War, Percy made the gods promise to claim all their children and for the minor gods to have more respect, so now there are twenty cabins in total, one honoring each god or goddess (Minors included). Some of the cabins include Zeus , Hera , Poseidon , Demeter , Dionysus , Hermes , Ares , Athena , Apollo , Aphrodite , Hephaestus , and Artemis (Though it is only used when the Hunters come to camp), the cabins of Hades , Iris , Hypnos , Nemesis , Nike , Hebe , Tyche , and Hecate being the latest additions. This makes in total twenty cabins. It is also thought that more cabins and shrines are to be added.

Hera's cabin is an honorary one as a courtesy to Hera, as she's the queen of the gods, even if she has no demigod offspring. Artemis' cabin is also honorary because she is one of the maiden/virgin goddesses, but does sometimes play host to her Huntresses. The cabins honoring Zeus and Poseidon are supposed to be empty, but Percy Jackson and his Cyclops half-brother Tyson (occasionally) occupy Poseidon's cabin, and Thalia Grace used to occupy Zeus' cabin, before she joined Artemis' Hunters to prevent her from being the child of the prophecy, and Jason Grace occupied the cabin before his untimely death.

All twenty cabins in the graphic novel.

After The Last Olympian , the layout of the cabins changed dramatically, due to the deal Percy made with the gods.
Now, each minor god and Hades (fortunate for Nico di Angelo ) have their own cabins which means that the number of campers will double or triple, to Mr. D's dismay (luckily, by this time, Zeus cut his remaining time to 50 years instead of 100.) Also, now the gods are obligated to claim their demigod children by age 13. This will make for a much less crowded Hermes cabin. It is presumed that they are still making cabins. The cabins are now placed in the shape of a Greek Omega (the last letter of the Classic Greek alphabet: Ω).

Note: Janus could be counted as one of the minor gods, and is mentioned by Percy Jackson in The Last Olympian , but please note that that would make twenty-one cabins and that Janus is a Roman god.

By the end of The Blood of Olympus , Jason started planning to give the remaining gods cabins.

The Big House [ ]

The Big House in the graphic novel.

Big House is where the Oracle used to live in the attic before Rachel Elizabeth Dare took the Oracle into her own body and told many prophecies starting in the Heroes of Olympus series. It also is the main meeting place for the leaders of the cabins for major problems and ideas before any quests. Dionysus and Chiron enjoy playing pinochle on the front porch, the greatest game invented by man (along with Pac-Man and gladiator fighting) according to Dionysus .

Dining Pavilion [ ]

Dining Pavilion in the Illustrated Edition.

The dining pavilion is where the campers eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The food served is a diet primary of grapes, cheese, bread, and extra lean, nymph-cut barbecue and you can ask whatever you want to drink (although Coke does not have the same flavor). Each cabin has their own tables and campers are not allowed to sit at a table that is not their cabin's (Annabeth Chase broke this rule to speak with Percy in The Battle of the Labyrinth only while talking about the quest.) The tables are covered with a white tablecloth fringed with purple. At the center of the pavilion is the bonfire. It is lit during the dinners. At the beginning of each meal, each cabin takes turns going up to the fire and dropping in a share of their best food as an offering for the gods (because the gods like the smell). Hestia , goddess of the hearth, gets a portion of each offering.

In The Court of the Dead , it's mentioned that the rules about sitting with one's own cabin have been abolished with very little pushback from Chiron and Dionysus following Nico di Angelo 's non-violent resistance movement the previous summer because Nico had wanted to sit with his boyfriend Will Solace . Campers are now allowed to sit wherever they please.

Amphitheater [ ]

The amphitheater in the graphic novel.

The amphitheater has rising tiers of stone benches that curve around the central stage. The benches are as comfortable as movie-theater chairs.

Camp Store [ ]

The camp store sells Camp Half-Blood t-shirts, toothbrushes, windchimes - available in Celestial bronze, silver, and seashells - that can interpret the voices of prophecy-sprouting trees, packs of Mythomagic cards, and tote bags.

Magical Landmarks [ ]

Grove of Dodona [ ]

The Grove of Dodona is a grove of sacred oak trees that can actually speak and sometimes even issued prophecies.

Cave of the Oracle [ ]

The cave of the Oracle is where the current oracle Rachel Elizabeth Dare resides. The cave walls has paintings of her visions to get a better understanding of them. Outside the cave, there are two torches with a purple curtain covering the entire cave, thereby granting privacy to the person inside. The cave has massive sofas and throw pillows.

Camp Borders [ ]

The camp borders are designed to keep mortals , monsters , bad weather and many other things out of the camp. Only campers, satyrs, gods, some mortals (such as May Castellan and Rachel Elizabeth Dare in The Last Olympian ) and monsters who were given the permission by a camper (as Annabeth Chase did to Tyson ) may enter through the border (as Grover once told Percy people let monsters in as 'practical jokes' much to Percy's shock). Once, the border was protected by many things, the most notable being a strong copper dragon. In modern times, it is passively — but effectively — defended by the magical barrier generated by Thalia's Pine Tree , created by her dad, Zeus, in her dying moments as he took pity on her.

In The Sea of Monsters , Thalia's Tree was poisoned by Luke Castellan with elder python venom from the pit of Tartarus. As the tree weakened, so did the strength of the borders. Percy managed to rescue Grover as well as steal the Fleece from Polyphemus the Cyclops. The Fleece healed Thalia's tree and restored Thalia to her original body while leaving the tree in place. The Fleece is guarded by the dragon Peleus .

During The Demigod Files , which took place about a few weeks after the Battle of the Labyrinth took place, Percy Jackson, Annabeth Chase, Charles Beckendorf , and Silena Beauregard found the Myrmekes - ancient Greek ants the size of a terrier carrying the head of mechanical bronze dragon. The marks of the head digging on the ground revealed a massive crater with the neck of the bronze dragon. Annabeth reattached the dragon's head and led the dragon to help rescue Beckendorf, who was captured by the ants. The dragon then went berserk and Beckendorf worked with Percy to shut it down. Then it was fixed by Leo Valdez in The Lost Hero and used on the quest to rescue Hera from Porphyrion , although it was destroyed at the home of King Midas and the remaining parts were taken back to Bunker 9.

Thalia's Pine Tree and Golden Fleece [ ]

Years ago when Annabeth, Thalia, and Luke were attempting to make it across the border to Camp Half-Blood (while being pursued by monsters) Thalia made her last stand which allowed Annabeth and Luke to cross over. As Thalia lay dying, her father Zeus transformed her into a pine tree which acted as a border between the camp and monsters. In events prior to The Sea of Monsters, Luke poisoned the tree with venom from the Elder Python weakening the barriers. In order to heal the tree a quest was called for to recover the Golden Fleece. The Fleece worked so well that it healed Thalia herself bringing her back into a demigod form. The tree now serves no actual purpose except as a monument to Thalia it is the Fleece that keeps the barrier working.

The Athena Parthenos [ ]

During the Second Demigod Civil War, Roman Demigod Reyna Ramírez-Arellano brought the Athena Parthenos to Camp Half-Blood, along with Gleeson Hedge and Nico di Angelo, in order to heal the rift between Roman and Greek Demigods and heal the split personalities of the Gods.

Training Grounds [ ]

Armory [ ]

The armory in the graphic novel.

This is where the campers get their weapons. It is a big metal shed around the side of Athena's cabin . In The Lost Hero , Annabeth helped Piper choose her weapon, which is later a dagger named Katoptris, there. It has quite a large collection of swords, spears, clubs and even shotguns. Every camper gets a weapon, but the Hephaestus' cabin makes their own. The armory is confused as the camp forge.

Climbing Wall [ ]

The lava wall, a climbing wall, is said to pour lava out for an “extra challenge ”. If the camper does not get to the top quickly the walls clash together and the camper's clothes are soaked with lava (actually torn to only threads).

Sword Fighting Arena [ ]

The Sword Fighting Area is where campers go to duel and practice with different weapons of their choice. It is between the cabins and the Armory. There are straw dummies in Greek armor scattered around the room and training swords.

Archery Field [ ]

The Archery Field is where Archery classes are taught.

Volleyball Court [ ]

The Volleyball Court is the court the demigods go to play volleyball. Not much is said about it, though in Camp Half-Blood Confidential, Holly and Laurel Victor "run it".

Tinkering [ ]

Camp Forge [ ]

There are white marble columns lining walls stained with soot. Chimneys on the roof pump smoke over a gable with carvings of gods and monsters. The forge is located at the edge of a stream, with waterwheels spinning bronze gears. Always, campers hear machinery working, fires crackling, and the sound of hammers against metal. Inside are tables full of projects and weapons, and there was also a big wall map of the camp, used to plan traps to catch the bronze dragon. Hephaestus ' children are often, or always, working in the forges.

Arts & Crafts Center [ ]

There are skeins of naturally dyed yarn, easels with stretched canvases, blocks of marble and clay, and all the tools and paints demigods could ask for. The Arts and Crafts Center is the favorite place of Athena's children who could sculpt, paint, weave, and do ceramics, but it is open to everyone to embrace their artistic side.

Bunker 9 [ ]

Bunker Nine was created by the children of Hephaestus. It was also the location where the flying ship Argo II was built. It can only be opened by fire. The first person to discover its location in a long time was Leo Valdez. One of the things currently housed in it is the remains of James Dean's Porsche 550 Spyder

Wild Places [ ]

Grove of the Council of Cloven Elders [ ]

The Grove of the Council of Cloven Elders is where the Council of Cloven Elders meet.

Pegasus Stables [ ]

The stables in the graphic novel

This is where they house the pegasi (and horses), like Blackjack, Percy's black pegasus. Percy can read the pegasi (and all equestrian's) minds since his father created the horses. The Demeter cabin is in charge of the pegasi riding lessons, but Aphrodite's Cabin helps every now and then. Every few times, some demigod(s) would take pegasi lessons from one of the other demigods from Aphrodite's cabin. It is also shown that Chiron does not like the stables very much.

Myrmeke's Lair [ ]

The Myrmeke Hill is at first thought to be a myth, until Percy , Annabeth Chase , Silena Beauregard , and Charles Beckendorf found it. Beckendorf was captured by myrmekes and Percy, Annabeth and Silena activated the Festus , later named Festus , to rescue him. It is located on the North-West side of the woods. It has many nests down to the Earth's core that are stocked with lava, metal, and lots of armor.

Also appears in the first Trials of Apollo ] book, The Hidden Oracle . Meg is kidnapped by the myrmekes and Lester must rescue her.

Geysers [ ]

The Geysers are located in the Forest and they are home to two Palikoi (geyser spirits and guardians of sacred oaths), Pete and Paulie.

Strawberry Fields [ ]

The Strawberry Fields are where the camp grows strawberries to sell.

The Forest [ ]

The woods are where dryads live and monsters were stocked. It is known as a dangerous place, and no one should ever go there unless they were armed or with a companion. The campers play capture-the-flag in the woods every Friday and sometimes hunt for monsters to fight as training, such as when Quintus brought scorpions from Triple G Ranch . It is often mentioned in Percy Jackson and the Olympians.

Other Locations [ ]

Canoe Lake [ ]

The Canoe Lake is where the campers canoe.

Half-Blood Hill [ ]

Half-Blood Hill is where Thalia's Tree is located. It is also one of the hills surrounding Camp Half-Blood.

Maenad Party Area [ ]

The Maenad Party Area is where the Maenads throw parties.

Zeus' Fist [ ]

Zeus' Fist is a cluster of rocks that look like Zeus' Fist. In The Battle of The Labyrinth , Annabeth and Percy inadvertently discover that Zeus' Fist is actually an entrance (or exit depending on how you look at it) into The Labyrinth. The possibility of Luke using this results in a quest. After The Labyrinth was destroyed the cluster still remained though it serves no actual purpose.

Euros Creek [ ]

Euros Creek is a creek at Camp Half-Blood.

Zephyros Creek [ ]

Zephyros Creek is a creek at Camp Half-Blood.

The Beach [ ]

The beach is the sandy coastline located at the camp's northern most border.

Camp Traditions [ ]

The camp has several traditions derived from its Greek roots. Winners and victors are given laurel wreaths and paraded around camp. More poignantly, anytime a camper goes on a quest, their siblings/cabin mates weave them a burial shroud in case their sibling does not survive — if the camper has no siblings, another cabin may volunteer to do it, should they return victorious, they get to burn the shroud.

But the most prominent tradition is the camp beads . At the end of every summer session, the senior counselors vote on the biggest event of the summer and paint it on the bead:

There are five beads on Annabeth 's necklace at the start of The Lightning Thief , from years taking place prior to the books. The ones described are Thalia's Pine Tree , a centaur in a prom dress — ("...now that was a weird summer..."), and a Greek trireme on fire. Percy interrupts Annabeth in her explanation so the last two beads are not described. Because Luke arrived the same year as Annabeth, it can be assumed he had the same set.

A game of capture the flag is played every Friday from 6:00 (PM) to 9:00 (PM). The boundary is the creek and often teams use the pile of rocks named ' Zeus' Fist '. Whenever the Hunters of Artemis come to the camp, there is a game of capture the flag and all campers participate in helping out. It is said that even the Aphrodite children go around offering to straighten peoples armor. Normally this cabin would sit on the side lines and cheer. In The Titan's Curse it is stated that the Hunters have won 56 times in a row.

In a deleted scene of The Lightning Thief , Percy is thrown to the lake as a tradition for newcomers. It is done after the Hermes cabin does a chant and "a series of hand-gestures I didn't understand any better than the words" as Percy described them.

Notable Campers [ ]

Percy , former Counselor of Cabin 3 .

Nico, Counselor of Cabin 13.

Camp Counselors [ ]

﻿﻿The camp has the tradition that the cabin member who has been there the longest becomes counselor. The only ones who can challenge this are cabin members who are older, or have completed the most quests and can challenge the current counselor.

Camp Counselors are also known as Head Counselors .

Staff Members [ ]

Dionysus, Camp Director.

Senior Council [ ]

The Senior Council is an assembly of the Head Counselors or Camp Counselors of Camp Half-Blood along with Chiron and Mr. D , when at camp. Depending on the circumstances, other individuals are invited to attend based on their relevance. The council typically meets when issuing a quest, discussing a military attack, after a prophecy or during a crisis. 
The meetings are usually held around Mr. D's ping pong table in the Rec Room .

Camp Schedule [ ]

There is no known exact schedule, but according to The Ultimate Guide , this is Percy's for the Poseidon cabin , (which might be different for other campers and cabins) camp schedule:

Gallery [ ]

Notes [ ]

According to the sign, the camp has moved around with Western Civilization since Greece , however, according to Daedalus , it has not been around for even fifty years, though Daedalus could have been actually referring to when he himself was a child many thousands of years ago. This is supported due to Bunker 9 , it has been around since the USA's early days — mainly the American Civil War as both Greek and Roman demigods fought each other in a Demigod Civil War.

Trivia [ ]

See Also [ ]

References [ ]