This article is about the character in the canonical story of the book series. You may be looking for the character from the TV series or the character from the movie .

Clarisse La Rue

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Family

Affiliation

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Clarisse La Rue is the Greek demigod daughter of Ares . She is the former head counselor of Ares' Cabin , before stepping down and giving the role to Sherman Yang . She is currently attending the University of Arizona and is the current girlfriend of Chris Rodriguez .

Contents

History [ ]

Little is known of Clarisse's past except that she is from Phoenix , Arizona , and was brought to camp by the satyr Gleeson Hedge .

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Clarisse is known as a bully at Camp Half-Blood . She is a well-trained camper and this can be a bad thing, depending on whose side she's on. When Percy Jackson first arrives at camp and is being shown around by Annabeth Chase , she mocks the two. She tries dunking Percy's head in a toilet, but this backfires when Percy unknowingly uses his water powers to shoot the water back at her, blasting her and her friends out of the bathroom. It is known that she and her gang dunks everyone's head in a toilet as an initiation, although it is not seen whenever a new camper comes. She shows mastery at using her favorite weapon, an electric spear that was given to her by her father, Ares . Percy manages to break it, (during a capture the flag in the camp) making Clarisse hate him even more. The spear is eventually replaced with one called Maimer, but everyone else (including her own cabin mates) nicknamed it Lamer behind her back. While on a quest , Percy has to retrieve Hades ' Helm of Darkness and wins a fight against Ares, making all the Ares kids hate him.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Clarisse goes on a quest by Tantalus to retrieve the Golden Fleece from the Sea of Monsters. On the way there she rescues Percy, Annabeth, and Tyson from the Hydra and takes them aboard a ship named CSS Birmingham to which she is the commander with undead Confederate soldiers as her workers. She talks to her father Ares who did not want her to fail in the quest and give the chance of being an hero to Percy Jackson who is called as 'Slimeball' Jackson by Ares. While sailing through the Sea of Monsters, they are separated by Charybdis and Scylla , and an explosion blew up the CSS Birmingham . Clarisse thinks everyone else is dead, and Annabeth and Percy think the same. Clarisse reaches the island of Polyphemus just before Percy and Annabeth but is captured.

Polyphemus takes away Clarisse's weapon and ties her up over boiling water. Clarisse yells at him to release her and fight and reveals that Polyphemus' bride is actually Grover Underwood who is trying his best to keep himself alive. Angry, Polyphemus declares that Grover would be the meal, and Clarisse would be the bride, much to her horror. The Cyclops imprisons Grover and Clarisse in a cave, but Percy and Annabeth come to their rescue. After fleeing the cave, they all try to fight Polyphemus but fail. Tyson arrives and rescues his friends, retrieving the Golden Fleece in the process, but Clarisse's taunts at Polyphemus drives him to sink Percy's and Annabeth's ship, Queen Anne's Revenge .

With the help of Hippocampi , they escape the Sea of Monsters to Miami where Percy gives the Fleece and all the money they had left to Clarisse so she could get back to camp. She succeeded and, just as she set the Fleece over Thalia's tree, Percy, Annabeth, Tyson, and Chiron arrived. That night, the Fleece restored Thalia's Tree back to health and brings back Thalia Grace , daughter of Zeus , giving Kronos a second chance to control the prophecy.

The Titan's Curse [ ]

Clarisse is not at Camp Half-Blood because she is away on a secret scouting mission for Chiron, but has not been heard from and is considered M.I.A.

After Clarisse went on her quest in the Labyrinth, Clarisse stumbled upon Chris Rodriguez (who she had a crush on), who was driven to insanity by the Ghost King Minos . She takes him back to Camp Half-Blood, determined to nurse him back to health.

Once Annabeth is retrieved, Clarisse tells the campers and Chiron that she has "bad news for everyone".

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Clarisse has become better friends with Annabeth (though still not with Percy), and they have been planning something to do with Clarisse's secret scouting mission the previous winter. She is seen holding back Juniper at Grover 's trial with the Council of Cloven Elders .

The "bad news" referred to during the winter is revealed when Clarisse reports that Luke Castellan has been trying to get into camp through the Labyrinth .

Clarisse is unable to heal Chris Rodriguez, which brings her to tears, showing that she still has strong feelings for him.

When Clarisse sees Percy, she asks that when he finds Daedalus , the creator of the Labyrinth, to kill him. "Because anybody who can make something like the Labyrinth, Percy? That person is evil. Plain evil."

Clarisse was seen by Percy Jackson in the Big House basement with Chris. When Percy describes how Clarisse acts toward Chris, it makes him believe she knew and loved Chris before he had swapped sides.

Dionysus later cures him of his madness, as madness is in his realm of control. Chris Rodriguez then began dating Clarisse, after showing interest in her.

The Demigod Files [ ]

Clarisse was given the task of looking after her father's chariot for the day. Her divine half-brothers, Phobos and Deimos stole it, and with the help of Percy, she manages to get it back and return it to her father by sunset. This results in the two becoming friends, though they keep that fact to themselves because they have a reputation of being rivals at camp.

Her interview foreshadows her dislike of Michael Yew , because of her arguments with him when he said that the Apollo Cabin was better just because they could use long-ranged weapons. She also states that she wishes to break his bow over his head.

The Last Olympian [ ]

The occupants of Ares' cabin and Apollo's cabin are fighting over a flying chariot because both cabins want it as their own. The Ares cabin had led the raid, and the Apollo cabin had captured the chariot. The Apollo cabin curses Clarisse's cabin mates so that they have to talk in rhyme.

At a war council, she tells the other head counselors that the Ares Cabin will not fight because they were disrespected. She sticks up for, and is good friends with Silena Beauregard , and is sympathetic when Charles Beckendorf dies. She is also vital in the final battle because Kronos had sent a drakon to attack the Heroes and it was foretold only a child of Ares could slay it; but the cabin had been duped into not helping, thanks to a spy in the camp. Finally, they arrive when Silena dresses in Clarisse's armor and fools the cabin into joining the battle. After Silena is fatally wounded Clarisse charges the drakon without armor and brings the beast down, avenging her friend. The deed also earned her the blessing of Ares and the respect of her father who said it was the best drakon slaying he had ever seen. Clarisse continued to battle with the horde of monsters until she was frozen by a Hyperborean Giant .

After the war ends in victory for the Olympians and demigods, Clarisse returned to camp. She and some campers eavesdrop on Percy and Annabeth, Clarisse and the campers gleefully interrupt them kissing and throw them into the canoe lake.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Clarisse is mentioned when one camper comments on how Jason Grace 's weapon is better than Clarisse's spear, Maimer. She is again mentioned when Leo reveals Festus to the camp brandishing her spear stating they should kill Festus. She takes part in a council meeting once Jason regains his memories. Chiron reveals the truth about the Roman camp . She mentions that the brutal philosophy of the Romans makes sense to her, as Ares is the god of war so his children like violence. However, she does not like the concept of Greek demigods working/cooperating with Roman demigods, as they were enemies before.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

When Gleeson Hedge is talking to Frank Zhang about General Sherman's attack on Atlanta and how he burned it to the ground, Percy thought that Clarisse would do something similar without hesitation.

The House of Hades [ ]

Gleeson Hedge tells Frank Zhang that he was the satyr who brought Clarisse to Camp-Half Blood. Also, Clarisse is seen leading demigods at Camp Half-Blood in preparation for the impending Roman attack.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

Clarisse is seen in a meeting with Chiron and the cabin members during Nico's dream of Camp Half-Blood. She says to attack the Romans, however, this idea is rejected. Also, it is shown she has little faith in Reyna's quest to transport the Athena Parthenos . Clarisse led the Greeks to battle to defend the camp but stopped when the Athena Parthenos was returned. She survived the battle with Gaea and was next seen at the dining pavilion keeping female campers away from her godson, Chuck Hedge .

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

It is revealed that Clarisse has stepped down from her position as a counselor, and now attends the University of Arizona. Her successor is her half-brother, Sherman Yang .

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star [ ]

When venturing through Tartarus with Will, Nico wishes the daughter of Ares was with them.

Personality [ ]

Clarisse is generally hot-tempered, arrogant, brave, and strong like most of her siblings. She is also known as a bully that dunks new campers' heads in toilets. In The Battle of the Labyrinth Clarisse shows strong feelings for Chris Rodriguez and shows her kind and caring side to him, even before he becomes her boyfriend. Clarisse is very proud and defensive of her cabin and often defends the camp from monsters. She is also defensive and very protective of her good friend Silena Beauregard after she gave Clarisse some dating advice.

Although never seen in a one-on-one duel with anyone in the series, Clarisse is a fierce and daring warrior, and is all too aware of this, taking extreme pride to the point of hubris in her own combat skills. Her anger toward Percy increased after he defeated her father. During The Last Olympian , she is angered by the camp for never respecting the Ares' Cabin . Her pride even prevented her from allowing her cabin from fighting in the war until Silena's intervention, mirroring Achilles preventing his army from fighting in the Trojan War.

She is similar in that way to Achilles, in the sense that her pride sometimes gets in the way of her good sense. This also makes her extremely similar to her own father, Ares, in that they both value strength as a primary advantage - although, Clarisse does not only rely on strength, and is an extremely charismatic leader who even Percy recognizes to have inspirational bravery.

Appearance [ ]

Clarisse is described as having the height of a basketball player and the muscular body of a rugby player, making her the most physically adept female fighter at Camp Half-Blood. In The Last Olympian , she is described as being a foot taller than Michael Yew , who is 4'6", making her 5'6". She has dark "pig eyes," and pale brown hair that is described as stringy. Percy also described Clarisse, along with the rest of her siblings, as having the same vicious sneer as their father, Ares. After returning from her scouting mission in The Titan's Curse , she has a new scar on her chin and her long hair is cut short and ragged "like someone had attacked it with a pair of safety scissors."

Abilities [ ]

Magical Items [ ]

Relationships [ ]

Love Interests [ ]

Clarisse found Chris wandering in the desert near her mother's house during the events of The Titan's Curse , after he was driven insane by Minos in the Labyrinth. She tried to nurse him back to health in The Battle of the Labyrinth , but nothing helped. Clarisse was gentle and affectionate while trying to help him, and when Dionysus cured Chris of his madness, a very happy Clarisse and Chris started dating.

Family [ ]

Clarisse with Ares, her father.

Clarisse is very frightened of her father Ares . When she is given a quest to find the Golden Fleece , she is shown to be scared of her father's harsh nature. Ares seems to favour his sons rather than his daughters, as he told Clarisse that one of his sons should have gotten the quest , and only his sons ever drove his chariot (with Clarisse being the first girl in a long time). In The Demigod Files , it was shown by Phobos , Clarisse's half-brother, that Clarisse's deepest fear was making her father angry at her. However, Clarisse made her father proud when she single-handedly fought a Lydian Drakon, sent by Kronos in The Last Olympian , and he gave her the blessing of Ares, which made Clarisse temporarily invincible.

Friends [ ]

Percy Jackson , her rival turned frienemy.

Annabeth Chase , a fellow camper.

Silena Beauregard ,  her best friend.

Gleeson Hedge, the Satyr that found her.

Etymology [ ]

Gallery [ ]

Trivia [ ]