This article is about the character. You may be looking for the character from the TV series or the character from the movie .

Grover Underwood

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Age

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Grover Underwood is a satyr and a Lord of the Wild, along with Silenus and Maron . He is also a Chosen of Pan , and is carrying the soul of Pan. He is the tritagonist of the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series and a minor character in The Heroes of Olympus series and The Trials of Apollo series. Grover is the satyr who found the demigods Thalia Grace , Nico and Bianca di Angelo , Percy Jackson , Annabeth Chase , and Luke Castellan . Grover is currently in a relationship with Juniper the dryad .

Contents

History [ ]

Early Life [ ]

Grover Underwood was born to an unknown satyr and nymph on an unknown date. As a young satyr, he attended a daycare sponsored by the goddess Hebe . Like many satyrs, Grover aspired to be a Searcher , one who searches for Pan . Grover's father and uncle were Searchers who had tried and failed to look for Pan. Grover aspired to succeed where they, and every other Searcher, had failed. In order to serve in that role, Grover needed to obtain a Searcher's License from the Council of Cloven Elders . Grover aspired to prove himself by accompanying young demigods to Camp Half-Blood .

Finding Luke, Thalia, and Annabeth [ ]

Grover's adventures began with finding Luke Castellan , Thalia Grace , and Annabeth Chase . He came across the trio traveling together, then tried to get them safely to Camp Half-Blood while at the same time avoiding the forces of the Underworld . Hades , after learning that a child of Zeus had been born, sent monsters after Thalia.

Along the way, Grover took some wrong turns, which led them into danger with other monsters, including a Cyclops that gave Annabeth a fear of the species for a long time. The same cyclops then caused Thalia to sacrifice herself for her friends. Grover almost lost his job because of this. While Grover claims it is his fault that they kept making wrong turns, Thalia later tells Percy that Luke was the reason as he kept looking for fights with monsters as he was angry with his father , who he had met at his mother's home.

As they came close to the edge of Camp Half-Blood, Thalia stayed back to fight the monsters following them and told Grover to take Luke and Annabeth back to camp. Grover did as he was told and safely escorted both of them to camp, but at Thalia's cost.

Finding Percy [ ]

Five years later, Grover was given a second chance to earn his searcher's license by assigning him to Yancy Academy , where he met Percy Jackson. He spent enough time befriending Percy to know that he was a demigod (and a seemingly powerful one at that). Grover eventually called in Chiron who took the form of Percy's Latin teacher.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

The Titan's Curse [ ]

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

The Last Olympian [ ]

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Grover doesn't appear but is mentioned by Annabeth to be looking for Percy Jackson.﻿

The Son of Neptune [ ]

When Percy is in the mess hall trying to eat, Don the Faun found his way inside and started to sniff Percy, saying that he has an empathy link with a faun, but it is being suppressed somehow. However, the empathy link he could smell was actually with Grover, satyrs being the Greek form of fauns.

Later when Percy was dreaming, he sees Grover but doesn't remember him as Hera had taken his memory. When Grover tries to talk to him, Percy says he doesn't have any spare change (as the fauns at Camp Jupiter are constantly asking for change), but Grover doesn't know what Percy is talking about. He also tells Percy to stay put.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

While not physically present, Grover is mentioned several times throughout the novel. He is first mentioned when Percy thinks about his fear of suffocation and wonders if it is connected to his fatal flaw. He mentions that he doesn't want anyone to get hurt on his account and recalls how Grover tried to protect him while taking him to Camp Half-Blood almost getting killed by the Minotaur . Later, while on her quest for the Athena Parthenos , Annabeth sprains her ankle and lands in an unknown area. She remembers a course that Grover had taught her at Camp Half-Blood. Although she dismissed it as silly, Annabeth changes her mind when she uses it to set her ankle with bubble wrap and continues on her way.

The House of Hades [ ]

Grover is seen with Rachel Elizabeth Dare , Reyna Ramírez-Arellano , and Octavian in Jason Grace's dream. Rachel went to Reyna to deliver a message sent by Annabeth , who was in Tartarus. Grover was there to protect Rachel (the Romans and Greeks weren't exactly at peace at the time). Grover also told the Romans that the nature spirits can feel Gaea stirring, believing that she is on the edge of consciousness.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

Grover is seen with Camp Half-Blood during the Roman invasion leading the Nymphs and Satyrs into battle. He survives the battle and after consulting with the other nature spirits, announces that they can no longer sense Gaea after her scattering and believe that the Earth has returned to normal.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Nico reveals that Grover, along with the other Council of Cloven, is currently in California, dealing with the drought (much to the annoyance of Apollo). Later on, Will Solace mentions that he misses Grover, as the latter is excellent at organizing events--unlike Woodrow --such as the upcoming Three-Legged Death Race . He is also very missed by Juniper .

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

As Apollo and Meg McCaffrey are about to leave the Waystation , the daughter of Demeter searches for the right cloven guide to help them through the Labyrinth . She summons a powerful satyr, which happened to be Grover, to help them. He was apparently at Palm Springs , California and ate something he wasn't supposed to. He's not very happy about being summoned in a tomato patch in Indianapolis .

The Burning Maze [ ]

The Tower of Nero [ ]

After Percy and Annabeth celebrate graduating high school, he goes with them to the west coast.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star [ ]

Nico di Angelo and Will Solace contact Grover before their quest to Tartarus .

Appearance [ ]

Grover is described as a tall satyr with curly brown hair, brown eyes, horns, a wispy beard, acne, and hairy brown goat legs. Due to Grover being the satyr equivalent of a teenage boy, Grover goes through a puberty-like process of physical development throughout the books, which is notably shown through the growth of his horns that grow like a goat's do. By the time of The Last Olympian , his horns and goat fur have grown long enough to where he has stopped wearing a cap and jeans to pass as human. His goatee also grows fuller as the series progresses, being described as "almost manly" by Percy. He described Grover as having a bad case of acne in The Sea of Monsters , and he mentioned it had flared up in The Battle of the Labyrinth , presumably due to his heightened stress of finding Pan.

When under the effects of Beast Breath , Grover's lower half (temporarily) became human.

Personality [ ]

Grover is usually cheerful and upbeat, yet he chews on things when he's nervous, adding to his role of glutton. Some habits of his include chewing on furniture, clothing, biting his nails, and tugging at his goatee or his leg fur. He cries when he is upset, which makes him an easy target for bullies. The official Read Riordan website describes him as "a clumsy (albeit big-hearted) mess." Grover can often be seen underestimating himself, or acting too modest--when in reality, he has gartered the admiration of many others and has proved to be an extremely loyal friend and handy satyr to have around. He can be philosophical at times, according to Percy, but is also a really bad liar as proven in The Lightning Thief . Despite succumbing to cowardice at times, he has shown an overall resilient character and is extremely loyal to his friends, especially Percy. He's a vegetarian and an environmentalist, as he has an obsession with coffee (due to feeling the presence of Pan in New Mexico while drinking it), tin cans, and cheese enchiladas, and also hates zoos.

Irrational Fears [ ]

Grover is afraid of many things. He is most terrified of:

It was also mentioned that he has leporiphobia (fear of rabbits) and describes them as "big bullies who always steal celery from defenseless satyrs." This might have stimulated a fear of magicians as well; during his first encounter with the titan Prometheus , he notes his magician-like appearance and says he hates them because they usually have rabbits. He is also terrified of Dionysus, Juniper's anger, and ghosts.

Abilities and Tools [ ]

Being a satyr, Grover has many natural abilities that most other satyrs possess. Due to receiving power from Pan as he faded , Grover also possesses at least one ability that is unique to himself due to Grover inheriting it from the god. He also admits in The Last Olympian that his other natural abilities seemed to have increased greatly. In The Burning Maze , Apollo notes that Grover is supposed to possess great power, although Apollo hadn't seen it for himself yet. In Wrath of the Triple Goddess , Grover is able to literally ground himself in nature to connect with every living thing in Manhattan aside from humans which is very powerful magic that Grover can only perform because he's one of the Cloven Elders.

Relationships [ ]

Love Interests [ ]

Juniper , his girlfriend.

Juniper is a wood nymph and Grover's girlfriend. It's never established how they met and when exactly they started dating, but likely somewhere between The Titan's Curse and The Battle of the Labyrinth . In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Juniper nervously admitted that she had known about the cave entrance to the Labyrinth but hadn’t thought it was important. Her face turned green with embarrassment as she explained that she didn’t like caves, calling them “yucky.” She further confessed that the only reason she ever noticed the cave was because Luke had used it, blushing faintly with a greenish hue as she mentioned his name.Grover, trying to support her at first, joked that she had “good taste” for disliking caves. However, when Juniper blushed while talking about Luke, Grover huffed in frustration and sarcastically muttered that he should take back his comment about her having good taste. This indicates that Grover was jealous that she had also had a crush on Luke , like many others.

In The Demigod Files , during his interview, he amorously comments on the dryads up in Lake Placid, New York before remembering Juniper, which is when he asks the interviewer if they could edit that part out for fear that Juniper would kill him. He also feared she would kill him when he returned to camp after his two-month slumber. When Grover comes back to camp after the war in The Last Olympian , Juniper tackles/hugs him. Grover is also known to have had a crush on a blueberry bush and Artemis .

In The Chalice of the Gods , Grover wanted to give something to Juniper for her Bloom Day, so he asks Annabeth for help, who in turn makes a deal with Blanche , a daughter of Iris, to help him make a monochrome portfolio of himself for Juniper's Bloom Day. However, Juniper is not pleased with the gift and expresses jealousy whenever Grover keeps mentioning Blanche's name, thinking he might have feelings for the demigod. With some helpful advice from Percy, Grover decides to spend the weekend with Juniper at camp to apologize for his behavior. She forgives him and the two still remain close, even helping by warning Annabeth about the dangers of concentrated nectar .

Friends [ ]

Percy Jackson , his best friend and protectee.

Grover met Percy in Middle School at Yancy Academy. Upon realizing that he was a demigod (a powerful one, too), he befriended him and helped Percy reach Camp Half-Blood. Percy often ends up saving Grover and laughs when Grover says he had been protecting Percy, which he has, but in a different way. Percy recalled how he had lost sleep over Grover, wondering how he would survive the school year without Percy there to protect him from bullies, and how he especially dreaded saying goodbye to him. The two have an empathy link , a telepathic, emotional connection that can be initiated by a satyr or faun. In The Lost Hero , Grover is heard to be looking for Percy and this is proven correct when Percy has a dream/empathy link connection with Grover in The Son of Neptune . In The Chalice of the Gods , Grover is scared of the fact that Percy is leaving for New Rome after graduation, but they both promise to visit each other whenever they can. This conversation is brought back up in the Wrath of the Triple Goddess , where, again, Percy consoles Grover and reassures him that they will always remain best friends.

Annabeth Chase , his close friend.

Thalia Grace , a demigod he escorted to camp.

Tyson , a cyclops he befriended after getting over his fear of him.

Grover and Tyson know each other through Percy, but they didn't seem to get along very well, due to Grover's past experience with Polyphemus and Tyson being allergic to Grover's fur. At best, they were willing to tolerate each other's presence for Percy's sake.

Council of Cloven Elders and Satyrs [ ]

The Council of Cloven Elders , who he would join after being criticized by them.

Though originally ridiculed for claiming to have found Pan and said that the great god Pan was dead, Grover was accepted after being proclaimed a member of the Council after the events of The Last Olympian . In The House of Hades , he's referred to as one of its leaders by Rachel Elizabeth Dare during a meeting with the Romans.

Video Game [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Grover in The Lightning Thief video game

Gallery [ ]

Etymology [ ]

Trivia [ ]

References [ ]