Kronos

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Lord of Time Titan of Time Titan of Evil and Harvest King of the Titans King of Mount Othrys

Status

Gender

Family

Affiliation

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Kronos (also spelled as Cronus and Cronos ) is the Titan of Time, Evil, and Harvest. He was the King of the Titans, the most powerful child of Gaea , the brother-husband of Rhea , and the father of the six Elder Olympians . Kronos is the main antagonist in Percy Jackson and the Olympians , being directly responsible for some of the major events in the series, such as the Second Titanomachy . His Roman counterpart is Saturn .

Contents

History [ ]

Early Life [ ]

Kronos was the youngest Titan, the eldest of the three races born to Gaea (Mother Earth) and Ouranos (Father Sky) before the Hekatonkheires ( Cottus , Gyges , and Briares ) and the Elder Cyclopes (Arges, Brontes, and Steropes). All were detested by their father, but he detested the six younger children so much (mainly for their ugliness) that he imprisoned them in the terrifying abyss of Tartarus , which was itself deep within the Earth. As the youngest Titan, Kronos was initially ignored by his parents, who even had trouble recalling his name. He wanted to prove himself as superior to his elder brothers, in any possible way. While growing up, Kronos would frequently resort to dirty cunning and dirty fighting tactics while wrestling his elder brothers, earning his infamous nickname "The Crooked One."

Enraged at Ouranos and his actions, Gaea eventually forged a scythe within the earth. She then gathered her remaining children to free their brothers and overthrow their arrogant and sadistic father. Initially, only Kronos would agree to help his mother, who gave him the scythe. He was able to convince all of his Titan brothers (except for Oceanus ) to aid him in their father's murder. Kronos' sisters Theia, Tethys, Themis , Phoebe, Mnemosyne , and Rhea refused to participate as well.

Murder of Ouranos [ ]

Ouranos, whom he chopped up

While preparing to ambush his father, Kronos asked his mother to distract his father in the earth (as Ouranos would lose power out of his domain) while he hid himself behind an enormous boulder along with his brothers Hyperion , Iapetus , Krios , and Koios . After his brothers held the struggling Ouranos down, Kronos used his scythe which his mother, Gaea had created and severed his genitals, claiming his supremacy over the universe. However, right before Kronos sliced him up, Ouranos predicted that one day Kronos himself would suffer the same fate at the hands of his own child. Then, Ouranos' form was spread so thin that was never able to form a consciousness again.

​​​​​​Afterwards, Kronos hurled Ouranos' genitalia into the sea as a gesture of loathing against his brother Oceanus for not helping slay their father. Ouranos' blood spilled across the earth, from which many creatures came forth, including the Furies , satyrs , centaurs and nymphs . Much later, the blood from Ouranos' severed genitalia would mix with the ocean spray to form sea foam, from which Aphrodite sprung forth.

The Titan King of Mount Orthys [ ]

As he had promised, Kronos granted the brothers who helped him control of the four corners of the world and released his Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheire brothers from Tartarus. In return, they built a magnificent black marble palace for Kronos on the top of Mount Orthys (then the tallest mountain in Greece), and a massive obsidian throne encrusted with gold and diamonds. Believing everything was fine now, their mother decided to rest for many thousands of years.

During his reign, Kronos would usher in an era of peace and prosperity for the Titans, which would later become known as the " Golden Age ." His reign is repeatedly referred to in Greek and Roman mythology as one of the best times in all of history for humanity . The Roman poet Ovid wrote about this in his Metamorphoses : Aurea prīma sata est aetās, quae vindice nūllō, sponte suā, sine lēge fidem rēctumque colēbat. Poena metusque aberant, nec verba minantia fīxō aere legēbantur, nec supplex turba timēbat iūdicis ōra sui, sed erant sine vindice tūtī, "The first golden age was sown, which with no avenger, but their own free will, cultivated faith and righteousness without law. Punishment and fear were absent, nor were threatening words read in fixed bronze, nor did a host suppliant fear the face of their judge, but they were protected, without a vindicator" (89-93). However, it should be noted that (as Chiron explained) the Golden Age was mere propaganda and mortals were only seen as fast food or cheap entertainment for the Titans. As the Titan of Time, Kronos particularly relished time's destructive properties, being immortal himself. He would often travel the world and speed up the lives of random plants, animals and humans, sadistically watch them wither up and die.

By this time, Kronos would frequently approach his clairvoyant brother Koios with questions about the future. His nephew Atlas would soon grow up to become his most powerful and loyal follower, General of his forces.

Marriage to Rhea [ ]

Fearing his father's prediction that he would be overpowered by one of his own children, Kronos had initially vowed to stay a bachelor forever. However, after all five of Kronos' elder siblings got married and had many children, they no longer visited him on Mount Orthys. While they claimed to be too busy, Kronos knew that the actual reason was their secret fear of his might and infamous temper.

Furthermore, Kronos began to fall deeply in love with Rhea , his most beautiful sister. He seemed to believe that marrying her would improve his personality and induce his siblings to visit him more often. In the end, Kronos confessed his deep feelings for Rhea and proposed to her. To Kronos' great delight, Rhea accepted. Their wedding was held at Mount Orthys. Rhea had one bridesmaid, her sister Tethys. He had one best man, his loyal brother Hyperion . All the Titans were allowed to come. It was a beautiful day with a clear sky, blossoming flowers, and a waterfall behind them. Rhea walked down a carpet of flowers. Her two loyal lions accompanied her at the reception, which was served with nectar and ambrosia .

Birth of the Olympian Gods [ ]

Hestia , his eldest child and the first goddess.

A few weeks after her and Kronos' wonderful honeymoon, Rhea gave birth to their first child: a beautiful girl named Hestia . At first, Kronos seemed willing to be a good father and not to resemble his own father. However, Kronos suddenly realized that Hestia wasn't a Titaness , but rather, a more powerful and beautiful immortal (a goddess ). Fearing that Hestia might one day overpower him, Kronos quickly swallowed her whole, to Rhea's horror. Trying to calm down his beloved wife, Kronos would give her many gifts and invite her to multiple magnificent dinners.

Rhea would give birth to two even more beautiful daughters ( Demeter and Hera ) and two handsome sons ( Hades and Poseidon ), all of whom were gods. As before, Kronos feared that any one of them might one day overpower him and swallowed all of them whole. Rhea pleaded with Kronos to spare their children but with no success, since even Kronos' great love for Rhea wasn't enough to overpower his selfish and evil nature. For his savagery towards his own children, Kronos became known as "King Cannibal." All five of their children had been growing undigested in Kronos' stomach, being immortal gods.

A distraught Rhea soon heard the voice of her mother Gaea , advising her to give birth to her final child (who would save his other siblings) on the island of Crete . Claiming that Koios advised her to do so, Rhea successfully departed for Crete. There, in a cave at the base of Mount Ida, she gave birth to her sixth and final child, a handsome boy whom she named Zeus . Rhea gave her newborn son the nine nymphs that attended his birth and returned to Mount Orthrys. She used a huge smooth boulder (given to her by Gaea) to deceive the weakened Kronos (who had five gods inside of him) by wrapping it up in swaddling clothes and pretending that it was her final child. Kronos swallowed it without even looking, which gave him an intense stomachache).

Shortly thereafter, Kronos had a single, brief affair with the Oceanid Philyre, which resulted in the birth of the handsome centaur Chiron .

Re-Imprisoning his Brothers [ ]

Kronos grew disgusted by all of the unbearable noise that his Hekatonkheire and Elder Cyclopes brothers constantly made and their revolting stench. Hence, Kronos, Hyperion and Atlas (the three strongest Titans) overpowered all six of his younger brothers, chained them up, and hurled them into Tartarus once again. This time, they were guarded by Kampê , the most ferocious and terrifying monster in all of Tartarus that the Titan King personally hired.

Zeus Rescues His Siblings [ ]

Zeus , his youngest son.

When Zeus grew to adulthood, he transformed into a Titanic version of himself and successfully infiltrated Mount Othrys at his mother's advice. Rhea convinced Kronos to hire him as his royal cupbearer. With the help of his great singing, dancing and joking skills, Zeus was able to constantly entertain all of the Titans at Mount Othrys, even Kronos himself. Shortly thereafter, Zeus encouraged the Titans to participate in drinking contests. As the Titan King, Kronos would always win, since he couldn't let his siblings, nieces or nephews overcome him in anything. Finally, the Titan King began trusting Zeus completely, which is exactly what the latter was waiting for.

One evening when Kronos was dining together with his brothers and nephews, Zeus prepared a special set of drinks for them all. Zeus prepared nectar mixed with the sleeping potion to Kronos' guests, while he prepared an extremely powerful emetic (made from nectar mixed with mustard) for Kronos himself. Near the end of the grand banquet, Zeus encouraged all of the Titans to have yet another drinking contest and handed out the prepared goblets. As before, Kronos won the contest, but Zeus' emetic was so powerful, that it forced him to instantly disgorge all of the contents of his stomach, in reverse order of swallowing: first the boulder, then Poseidon, followed by Hades, Hera, Demeter, and Hestia. They escaped before their Titan relatives could recover properly.

The First Titanomachy [ ]

All six of Kronos' divine children quickly declared war against their father and other Titans, which resulted in the terrifying eleven-year-long Titanomachy . Rhea convinced all the female Titans and Oceanus to remain neutral all side with her children.

Kronos, their brothers and their children initially had the upper hand in the battles, since they were very skilled and much more experienced warriors. However, the gods quickly became skilled warriors as well, and with the help of their new extremely powerful weapons (Zeus' Master Bolt , Poseidon's Trident , and Hades' Helm of Darkness ) and the aid of the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires, the gods finally prevailed. During the final battle, Zeus and his siblings ascended to Mount Olympus (the tallest mountain in Greece after Mount Orthys), used his Master Bolt to shear off the top of Mount Othrys, and hurled Kronos from his black throne, defeating the Titan King. Shortly thereafter, the gods invaded the ruins of Mount Orthys, and finally overwhelmed the remaining Titans.

In the aftermath of the battle, the Titans were all chained up by the Elder Cyclopes, after which the Hekatonkheires forced them to kneel before the gods. Zeus proceeded to take his father's scythe and slice him into a thousand pieces just as the Titan Lord had done to his own father, before casting him into Tartarus, along with his brothers Hyperion, Krios, Koios and Iapetus. Only Kronos' mighty former second-in-command, Atlas, received a different punishment, as he was forced to hold up the sky while being chained to the ruins of Mount Othrys.

Time in Tartarus [ ]

Poseidon once states that "from time to time, over the eons, Kronos has stirred, entered men's nightmares, and breathed evil thoughts." This implies that Kronos had repeatedly tried to manipulate others in order to escape from Tartarus, but was ultimately unsuccessful.

Recruiting Luke [ ]

Knowing of the resentment between demigods and their godly parents , Kronos decided to use this to his advantage and find a worthy follower, willing to oppose the gods. He finally found this follower in Luke Castellan , a son of Hermes , who had begun questioning the Olympians ever since his father "abandoned" both him and his sick mother. After seeing the fate of Halcyon Green and his close friend Thalia Grace turned into a tree, this questioning turned to resentment and hatred, and Luke began viewing all of the Olympians as evil, corrupt, selfish, and unworthy of worship. All of this made him a perfect ally for Kronos.
The evil Titan King contacted Luke in his dreams and gradually manipulated him to his cause, ordering him to steal the Master Bolt and the Helm of Darkness , the legendary weapons of Zeus and Hades respectively, which would start a civil war amongst the Big Three gods, as both Zeus and Hades would blame Poseidon because his son Percy Jackson was living in New York. Luke succeeded in stealing the Bolt and the Helm during a camp field trip to Olympus , but Luke was caught and defeated by Ares . Kronos saved Luke by manipulating Ares through the demigod and dreams, telling Ares that if the weapons were successfully stolen, a war would begin. Ares let Luke go but kept the weapons for himself. Luke was later punished by Kronos through terrifying nightmares.

When Luke promised never to fail him again, Kronos told him that a boy would be coming to Camp Half-Blood soon and they would use that boy to send the Master Bolt to Tartarus , where Kronos would be able to gain them and possibly use them to break free.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Chiron, his son.

As Kronos planned, Percy Jackson is blamed for the theft of the Master Bolt , although the theft of the Helm of Darkness remains unknown to the other Olympian gods. Percy is eventually sent on a quest with Annabeth Chase and Grover Underwood to retrieve and return the Master Bolt. Percy is contacted by Kronos in dreams who tries to tempt Percy by promising to return his mother who was taken to the Underworld by the Minotaur . Percy is frightened by the dreams and unsure of who is contacting him, but he refuses to give in to temptation. Later, as Percy and his friends pass Tartarus on their way through the Underworld, the Winged Shoes that Luke had given to Percy attempts to drag him and the Master Bolt in to Kronos. However, as Grover is wearing them instead, the magic is confused enough that Percy and Annabeth are able to save Grover.

Upon the trio's return to the mortal world, they are confronted by Ares and Percy realizes that someone else was responsible for the theft of the two items and had been manipulating Ares who attempted to deny it. After Percy defeats Ares in a duel, Kronos made his presence felt for just a second, frightening Ares into accepting his defeat and leaving. With the Furies having witnessed the fight and Percy having recovered the Helm of Darkness, Percy was able to prevent Hades from starting a war over the theft. After feeling the darkness given off by Ares when Kronos stopped him, Percy and Annabeth finally understand that Kronos is responsible and had been the one in Tartarus speaking to Percy.

Percy returns the Master Bolt to Zeus, stopping the war. Percy then reveals to Zeus and Poseidon that Ares was being used before explaining to them the voice from the pit's attempts to convince Percy to bring him the Master Bolt. Clarifying that he's not accusing Hades, Percy correctly guesses that the entrance to the pit is Tartarus and that something powerful and evil is stirring down there that's even older than the gods. Zeus and Poseidon briefly spoke in ancient Greek about it with Percy only understanding the word "father" before Zeus refused to hear any further discussion. Once Zeus is gone, Percy asks Poseidon about the being in the pit and correctly guesses that it was Kronos when prompted by his father. Poseidon explains how during the First Titan War , Zeus had cut Kronos into a thousand pieces as Kronos had done to Ouranos and then cast Kronos' remains into the deepest pit of Tartarus. However, as Titans can't die anymore than the gods can, Kronos is still alive in some hideous way, still conscious and in eternal pain always hungering for power. Percy expresses a belief that Kronos is healing and returning, but Poseidon dismisses this idea, telling Percy of how over the eons Kronos has stirred to influence men and monsters, but doesn't believe that Kronos is returning. Percy insists that it's what Kronos intends as Kronos had said as much, but Poseidon refuses to discuss the matter further as Zeus has closed all discussion on the matter.

On the last night of camp, Luke gets Percy alone and summons a Pit Scorpion to attack him, revealing his betrayal of the gods. Luke confirms that he's working for Kronos and explains how Kronos contacted him in his dreams, using Luke's resentment to his advantage and convinced Luke to steal the Master Bolt and the Helm of Darkness. Luke goes on to explain how he and Kronos had manipulated Ares after the god of war had caught Luke and how they had attempted to manipulate Percy into bringing the two items to the Titan. Luke warns Percy that he has only delayed the Kronos' plans and that Kronos will rise and cast the Olympians into Tartarus the humans back into their caves, sparing only the strongest - those who agree to serve him. Luke orders the scorpion to kill Percy, stating that Kronos has plenty of quests for Luke to undertake and that a new Golden Age is coming that Percy won't be a part of. Although the scorpion succeeds in stinging Percy, he manages to kill it and return to camp for healing. Percy warns Chiron of the developments who departs to warn the gods. Having been told of the existence of the Great Prophecy , Percy also realizes that it has to do with him and Kronos, but Chiron is forbidden from explaining it to him.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Luke captures Percy, Annabeth, and Tyson, they see Kronos' Sarcophagus in Luke's room on the Princess Andromeda . It is described as making the room colder and darker. Luke explains how he is bringing Kronos from Tartarus : every time a demigod renounces the gods to follow Kronos, a piece of the Titan King appears in the sarcophagus. In addition, their change of sides make the Titans (their new deities) stronger and the Olympians (their former deities) weaker.

Kronos intended to have Percy and his friends claim the Golden Fleece , and then take it from them to return to full power. However, he then intended to return the Fleece to Percy, so that Thalia Grace (daughter of Zeus) could be reborn and give him another chance to control the Great Prophecy , since he was confident in his abilities to sway her to his side.

The Titan's Curse [ ]

The reason why Kronos wanted Thalia to be reborn is finally revealed: he intended her to become the one of the Great Prophecy and to gain the power to destroy Olympus by burning the Ophiotaurus entrails. Luke reveals Kronos's plan to invade Camp Half-Blood (where several demigod heroes live) and later Olympus itself. In order to accomplish this (as is later revealed), Kronos had Luke send Chris Rodriguez into the Labyrinth , so that the latter might be able to find a way into Camp Half-Blood.

Kronos himself doesn't make an appearance, but as Thalia approaches Mount Othrys on Dr. Chase 's car, he strikes her car with lightning. Right before Thalia fights Luke and Percy fights Atlas, two telekhines are seen carrying Kronos' Sarcophagus up to Mount Orthys.

After Atlas's failure to capture Ophiotaurus and let Artemis escape, Kronos decides not to free Atlas from the weight of the sky because he failed his duties, despite Atlas being his best fighter.

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Kronos' scythe is first seen in Mount Saint Helens , when the telekhines re-forged it out of Backbiter . Percy describes it as the most terrifying weapon he's ever seen.

Later, Kronos' Sarcophagus appears on Mount Orthrys, where Percy is traveling through the Labyrinth that Hera opened. Ethan Nakamura swears loyalty to the Titans, finally waking Kronos, who uses Luke's body as a host until he can fully come back from Tartarus. Percy tries to fight him, but is unable to harm him as Kronos' host bears the Curse of Achilles . Kronos slows down time and would have killed Percy, had Kronos not been momentarily distracted when Rachel Elizabeth Dare throws her blue hairbrush at him and it hits him in the eye, which momentarily confuses Kronos, who then answers in Luke's voice. Nico di Angelo (son of Hades) creates a rock barrier between the two groups. These actions give Percy and his friends enough time to escape.

Due to his palace being shattered on top of him, Kronos is unable to lead his forces into Camp Half-Blood, as he had initially planned and the Battle of the Labyrinth takes place without him.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Kronos, still using Luke's body as a host, is on the Princess Andromeda , where he manages to capture Percy and Charles Beckendorf as they try to blow up the ship. Percy fights him bravely, but Kronos easily gains the upper hand and wounds Percy with his scythe, almost killing him. Kronos was the only one besides Percy (and, as later revealed, Alabaster C. Torrington ) who survived the explosion on the Princess Andromeda .

Kronos has his brother Krios defend Mount Othrys, his brother Oceanus attack Poseidon, and his brother Hyperion join his gathering forces in Manhattan . His brother Koios later mentions to have fought in the war, but his role is unknown. Kronos used the storm giant Typhon as a distraction for the Olympians, which meant that only the demigods stood in the way of his plan of the destruction of Olympus, where he would destroy the the gods' thrones, causing Olympus to fade forever. Before putting his plan into action, Kronos has the minor gods Morpheus and Hecate cast a huge sleeping spell, causing all of the mortals in Manhattan to fall asleep. He later slowed down the time of people coming to Manhattan so anyone couldn't enter the city until the war was over.

Kronos leads an offensive against Mount Olympus, which results in the bloodiest battle of the Second Titanomachy, but Kronos only could do it at night when he was strongest. Percy has another brief fight with Kronos and, since he now also bears the Curse of Achilles, is able to fight him on a nearly equal footing, though Kronos (as a Titan) is still stronger. As Percy pushed back Kronos' forces, Kronos watches Percy from the other shoreline as the latter destroys the bridge. Back at his base in Aunty Em's Gnome Emporium , he asks Ethan Nakamura if he knows where Percy's Achilles Heel is, but Ethan claims that he doesn't know.

Kronos later sends Ethan and the Titan Prometheus to Percy for a peace meeting, where Prometheus asks the demigods to surrender, but Percy refuses. In response, Kronos sends a monster that can only be defeated by a child of Ares , the Lydian Drakon , on Percy's forces during the day while they are still recovering. The monster , however, is defeated by Clarisse La Rue , who arrived after Silena Beauregard died trying. As Kronos makes his last march on Olympus, he has a brief encounter with his son Chiron, after which Kronos blasts him against a wall. When Kronos' army is attacked by Hades' forces, Hades challenges Kronos to a duel. However, Kronos prefers to hide behind an energy field and manages to get to the Empire State Building . He takes the elevator up to Olympus and starts destroying the statues of the gods.

Kronos and Percy battle for the last time in the Hall of the Gods , with neither gaining the upper hand. Then Ethan realizes that Kronos can only bring destruction and stabs him with his sword, which shatters and ends up hurting himself. Kronos opens up a hole, where the mortally wounded Ethan falls off Olympus, and resumes his battle with Percy. He finally manages to disarm Percy, but his host is distracted by Annabeth, who reminds Luke of the promise he made her and realizes who is the hero mentioned in the Great Prophecy. Luke manages to regain control over his body and takes Annabeth's knife from Percy (the cursed blade of the Great Prophecy) and stabs himself in his Achilles heel, his armpit. As a result, Kronos was spread to the wind , hopefully , spread so thin, that he could never take a form or be conscious again.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

After learning of Hera 's warning that a king rising on the winter solstice, Annabeth worriedly asks Chiron to tell her that it's not Kronos. After a moment, Chiron confirms that the threat from Kronos is over, but he refuses to explain what the new threat is.

The Son of Neptune [ ]

While talking to an amnesiac Percy , Nico mentions Kronos' comeback. However, since he was forced to adhere to the promise that he had formerly given Hades , Nico quickly corrects himself after almost calling the Titan King Kronos, and instead refers to him as by his Roman name, Saturn. Nico tells Percy the story of the Battle of Mount Othrys , and how Saturn had probably just faded back into the abyss of Tartarus again. Nico is shown to be very cautious when telling the story, as if fearing the rapid return of Percy's memory.

The House of Hades [ ]

All throughout the book, Percy wonders if little Kronos particles are flying around, laughing at him as he walked in Tartarus .

Later, at the Doors of Death , Bob and Koios talk about holding down Ouranos while Kronos cut him into little pieces. Koios tells Bob that bits and pieces of Kronos' essence remain, but nothing that could ever be put together again. Koios suggests that there are some injuries that even Tartarus can't heal.

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Son of Sobek [ ]

One of the things that Percy accuses Carter Kane of being is a rogue demigod from Kronos' army.

The Staff of Serapis [ ]

Annabeth briefly considers distracting Serapis by throwing her knife into his eye like how Rachel Elizabeth Dare once distracted Kronos, but Annabeth decides against it as she doesn't trust her aim.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Zeus tells an overexagerated version of the story of how he tricked Kronos at brunch with Rhea , much to the annoyance of the other gods and a hidden Percy Jackson .

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

After meeting Hecate for the first time, Percy mentions Kronos when thinking how Hecate originally joined him during the Second Titan War before rejoining the side of the Olympians shortly before the war's end.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Kronos is mentioned by Rhea as she talks to Apollo .

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

Calypso tells Apollo that Zeus sang at banquets of the Titans, when he served as cupbearer to Kronos.

The Burning Maze [ ]

When Apollo wonders why there isn't some god or goddess overseeing family ties, he thinks maybe there was and Kronos ate it.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

Kronos is mentioned together with the battle of Manhattan.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star: A Nico di Angelo Adventure [ ]

Kronos appears in a nightmare that Nico di Angelo has of the Battle of Manhattan .

Appearance [ ]

​In Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Kronos' true appearance is revealed for the first time. He has brutal golden eyes, black curly hair and a unnerving, long pointy beard. He is 9 feet tall, which is short for a Titan. However, he was very young at the time and would later grow as tall as his huge elder siblings. His voice is described as unspeakably old, cold, and powerful, like knives scraping against stone.

After swallowing five of his children (as well as a huge boulder), Kronos became quite fat from excessive eating and drinking. He probably lost weight during the First Titanomachy .

After his original body had been destroyed in the First Titanomachy , Kronos is forced to possess Luke Castellan , whose eyes turned golden as a result. When possessed by Kronos, Luke's face "seemed like a mask, unnatural and lit up from behind by some evil power."

Personality [ ]

Kronos was the boldest and most ruthless of the siblings, even though he was the youngest. His siblings and children were afraid of his insufferably irascible temper. He horribly punishes those who failed him and rarely gives second chances in times of crisis. Kronos is said to have inherited his mother's "cold and distant" smile, which would not waver while he watched demigods die or cities burn. While looking at him in the eye, it is impossible to tell whether he intends to tell a joke or to start a fight, making him completely unpredictable.

Earlier in his reign as Titan King, Kronos was shown to have a more honorable side - he went through with his promise of releasing his Hekatonkheire and Elder Cyclops brethren (though only initially) and fairly rewarded the four brothers who helped him with control over the four corners of the world. Though Kronos had initially relished all of the power and authority that he possessed, he would later become quite miserable about none of his Titan relatives ever visiting him and knew they secretly feared him. Kronos would finally fall deeply in love with Rhea, believing that marrying her would improve his personality. Before finding out that his daughter Hestia wasn't a Titan, Kronos seemed willing to be a good father and not to resemble his own cruel father Ouranos. After swallowing 5 of his children, Kronos began looking "tired and apathetic".

Kronos has a cruel and insatiable lust for power and domination that surpassed that of any other Titan. As shown in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , he was the youngest Titan of all, which is why both of his parents initially ignored him. As a result, he would always strive to prove himself as superior to his elder siblings in any possible way, which inspired him to murder his father. He relished being immortal and enjoyed speeding up the growth of mortals, sadistically watching them wither up and die before his eyes, something he never got bored of. Realizing that his children could potentially become too powerful for him to control, Kronos' cruelty and megalomania began to surface stronger than ever. He resulted to savagery towards his children, all of whom he brutally swallowed (except for Zeus), earning himself the infamous "King Cannibal" nickname. While Kronos was confident in his abilities to sway demigods to his side, he soon recognized which ones were too loyal or stubborn to change sides.

Abilities [ ]

As the son of Gaia and Ouranos, the Titan King of Mount Othrys and the father of the Big Three , Kronos is the most powerful Titan of all. The only beings known to surpass him are the Protogenoi, though he can fight them by using his scythe forged by Gaea. The Elder Olympians would be only able to match him in combat directly.

Items [ ]

Relationships [ ]

Family [ ]

Kronos inherited his cruelty and cold-blood from his parents. Ouranos wasn't the fatherly type and didn't care for his children at all. He hated all his children, but especially those of his children that didn't look normal such as the Hekatonkhieres and Elder Cyclopes. He imprisoned Kronos' younger siblings in Tartarus, which caused Kronos' mother, Gaea , great grief and fury.

Gaea gathered her remaining children, the Titans, requesting them to take it in order to get rid of Ouranos and free their brothers, the Elder Cyclopes and the Hekatonkheires. The Titans were scared of their father, so they were reluctant to murder their father out of fear. However, Kronos wanted to show his bravery to his older siblings, showing that being the smallest didn't mean he couldn't do the job and being angry that both of his parents didn't pay much attention to him as he was the youngest.

Kronos asked help from all his Titanic siblings to kill his father, but only his brothers Hyperion , Iapetus , Krios and Koios agreed to help him. He threw Ouranos' remains into the sea as a gesture of disgrace to his brother Oceanus , who had refused to help take down their father. He became especially close with the siblings who helped and his nephew Atlas, who became his second-in-command for his skills.

Though Kronos had initially relished all of the authority that he possessed, he would later become quite miserable about none of his Titan relatives ever visiting him and knew they secretly feared him. Despite, all of his siblings and nephews started to visit again. Hyperion became his first man in Kronos and Rhea's wedding. His siblings and nephews helped him in the First Titan War with the exception of Oceanus again.

As his mother asked, Kronos free his Elder Cyclops and the Hekatonkheires brothers from Tartarus. He had a decent relationship with them, but eventually decided to throw them back in to Tartarus after he got tired of their smell and noise.

Allies [ ]

Luke Castellan, his follower and host

Since Luke Castellan is one of Kronos's followers, Kronos respected Luke and expect him to not fail. Before The Lightning Thief , Kronos contacted Luke in his dreams and gradually manipulated him to his cause, ordering him to steal the Master Bolt and the Helm of Darkness . Luke succeeded in stealing the Bolt and the Helm during a camp field trip to Olympus, but Luke was caught and defeated by Ares. Kronos saved Luke by manipulating Ares through the demigod. Luke was later punished by Kronos through terrifying nightmares.

In The Sea of Monsters , Kronos gave Luke the Princess Andromeda to transport the Titan Army. Luke has Kronos' Sarcophagus in his room. In The Titan's Curse , Kronos let Luke hold the weight of the sky so Atlas could get free, though Luke survived by tricking a former ally. Later, Kronos had Luke send Chris Rodriguez into the Labyrinth, so that the latter might be able to find a way into Camp Half-Blood.

According to Kronos himself, he "had to pressure Luke in many ways" in order to convince him to bath in the River Styx. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Ethan Nakamura swears loyalty to the Titan, resulted in the awakening of Kronos, who uses Luke's body as a host, and comes back from Tartarus fully. In The Last Olympian, Kronos used Luke as a host to attempt to leads an offensive against Mount Olympus, which results in the bloodiest battle of the Second Titanomachy. However, when Kronos finally manages to disarm Percy, Luke is distracted by Annabeth, who reminds him of the promise he made her, which encourages Luke to finally realize that he was mislead by Kronos the entire time. Luke manages to regain control over his body and takes Annabeth's knife from Percy (the cursed blade of the Great Prophecy), and stabs himself in his Achilles heel (his armpit). As a result, Kronos was spread to the wind, hopefully spread so thin that he could never take a form or be conscious again .

Ethan Nakamura, his second-in-command.

In The Battle of the Labyrinth , Ethan Nakamura is seen with two telekhines, discussing their plan to resurrect Kronos. Percy, who was wearing Annabeth's magical Yankees cap to be invisible, took it off and begged Ethan not to do this. Percy had spared him, but Ethan betrayed him, and by joining Kronos' cause, he raised the fully restored Titan Lord from the depths of Tartarus.

Enemies [ ]

Before finding out that his daughter Hestia wasn't a Titan, Kronos seemed willing to be a good father and not to resemble his own cruel father Ouranos. He finally resulted to savagery towards his children , all of whom he brutally swallowed (except for Zeus ). After swallowing 5 of his children, Kronos began looking "tired and apathetic".

Kronos initially trusted Zeus, appointing him as his cup bearer for his jokes and artistic skills. However, after his children got free and declared war, he fought against them for several years. Kronos seems to have a particularly strong hatred for his son Poseidon for being "too changeable, and too unpredictable".

Rhea, his wife.

Percy Jackson , his enemy.

​​​​Kronos is the main antagonist of the whole story, but being the father of the Big Three gods, he is Percy's grandfather. Like Percy said, "Being the son of Poseidon and all, I guess that makes him my grandfather." Kronos seems to have a particularly a strong hatred for Poseidon's children, whom he describes as "too changeable, and too unpredictable."

Annabeth Chase, his enemy.

Annabeth is one of Percy's most helpful allies and thus a threat to his goals. He acknowledges her fierce spirit and understood why Luke wanted her to keep him alive. She had the idea which finally killed Kronos.

Rachel Elizabeth Dare, his enemy.

Trivia [ ]

Gallery [ ]