This article is about the book series character. You may be looking for the series , the video game , the film , the film soundtrack , the film character or the character from the TV series .

Percy Jackson

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Age

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Perseus "Percy" Jackson is the Greek demigod son of Poseidon and Sally Jackson . He is the main protagonist and narrator of the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series and one of the main characters of The Heroes of Olympus series. He is the Head Counselor of Poseidon's Cabin at Camp Half-Blood and a former Praetor of the Twelfth Legion at Camp Jupiter , formerly belonging to the legion's Fifth Cohort . He was also the temporary host of the Egyptian goddess Nekhbet . He is currently the boyfriend of Annabeth Chase .

Contents

Quick Answers

History [ ]

Early life [ ]

Percy Jackson was born on August 18th, to Poseidon , the Greek god of the seas, storms, earthquakes, and the creator of horses , and Sally Jackson , a mortal who could see through the Mist . He was named after the famous Greek hero Perseus by his mother for good luck, because his namesake was one of the few heroes who had a happy ending and died a peaceful death.

When Percy was still an infant, his father Poseidon left, as is usual of the gods, leaving Sally to raise Percy on her own. In Percy's case, Poseidon left to protect him and his mother from Zeus , who would have been angered to discover that his brother broke the oath ; a pact made by Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades , also known as the Big Three , to avoid having any more demigod children. As the most powerful Gods, children of the Big Three wield incredible power and are seen as too dangerous to be brought into existence. Percy was left with vague memories of his father looking over him in his cradle; only remembering a warm smile, a hand on his head, and a "Golden glow." At some point as an infant, Percy was attacked by a snake but managed to strangle it to death; just like the famous Greek demigod Heracles, more commonly known as Hercules. As Percy grew older, his mother would tell him that his father had been "lost at sea," never confirming whether he was dead or alive.

Meeting Gabe [ ]

Sometime while Percy was a toddler, Sally married Gabe Ugliano and hoped his horrible smell would mask her son's smell from the monsters that would hunt him down. Monsters are attracted to the scent of demigods; the more powerful the demigod, the stronger the scent. With Percy being a son of one of the Big Three, his scent would be even stronger than other demigods. However, Percy despised Gabe, as Gabe would frequently bully Percy and abuse his mother. Percy nicknamed him "Smelly Gabe," since he smelled like "Moldy garlic pizza wrapped in gym shorts." Gabe spent much of his time playing poker with his friends.

Early Expulsion [ ]

Strange things often happened around Percy, such as school buses crashing and aquariums flooding, which often resulted in him getting into trouble: he was kicked out of six schools over the course of six years. This unfortunately made Percy stand out. Many people bullied him during his childhood, while others, such as his second stepfather, Paul Blofis , suspected something was wrong with Percy but still accepted him. Paul was kind to Percy - even though he was involved in his school's music room being blown up.

It is said in The Blood of Olympus that Percy has been kicked out of several military academies where they believed that paddling is good for the soul.

When he was five, Percy went trick-or-treating in his apartment building and only got candy corn, getting sick afterwards.

In The Chalice of the Gods , it's said that when Percy was six, he and his mother were flying a kite when it got struck by lightning by Zeus, in the middle of a sunny day.

In third grade, Percy attended a school with a basement cafeteria and pizza days on Wednesdays. He would also discuss trading cards with his friends and the history teacher who was also their lunch monitor named Mr. Christ. Percy and his friends were too scared to ask what the teacher's first name was. However, neither being in third grade nor the pizza had been wonderful for Percy.

While he was in the third grade, a man in a black trench coat followed Percy around when he was at school. After teachers threatened to call the police, the man left. However, nobody believed Percy when he said that the man had just one big eye. They thought that he was hallucinating.

When he was in fourth grade on a trip to an aquarium, he accidentally hit the wrong lever on the catwalk when his school was visiting the Sea World Shark Pool and made his class take an "unplanned swim."

In fifth grade, Percy accidentally fired a war cannon, which hit the school bus when he was on a field trip at the Saratoga Battlefield.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

The Titan's Curse [ ]

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

The Demigod Files [ ]

The Last Olympian [ ]

Between the Series [ ]

Percy Jackson and the Singer of Apollo [ ]

The Staff of Hermes [ ]

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Although Percy is not shown in the book, it is revealed that he and Annabeth are officially dating and that the entirety of Camp Half-Blood was extremely worried about him. For most of the book, his location was unknown with the only clue being that he disappeared around the same time that Jason Grace , a son of Jupiter , first physically appeared.

It is eventually revealed that Jason and Percy were exchanged by Hera / Juno to unite the demigods of Greece and Rome against Gaea and the Gigantes as well as other creatures.

The Demigod Diaries [ ]

Alabaster C. Torrington mentions the son of Poseidon when telling Dr. Howard Claymore of Kronos' defeat, the son of Hecate states that if he ever encountered Percy he would give him "what he deserved".

The Son of Neptune [ ]

The Mark of Athena [ ]

The House of Hades [ ]

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

Percy Jackson's Greek Gods [ ]

Shortly after the defeat of Gaea and the Giants in The Blood of Olympus , Percy was asked by a publisher in New York to record and write down what he knows about the Olympian gods, to which the young demigod agreed, reasoning that it would help inexperienced demigods survive any unexpected divine encounters with a major Olympian. Percy proceeds to compile all of the stories that the demigods of Camp Half-Blood and Camp Jupiter told him over the years.

After finishing his narration of the book, Percy mentions being late to a meeting with Annabeth, which worries him.

Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes [ ]

A year after finishing writing Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Percy is approached by the same New York publisher, who, very impressed with the last book, asked him to write one more, this time focusing more on the Ancient Greek heroes. While Percy had originally refused, he was finally persuaded by an offer of a year's supply of free pepperoni pizza, along with numerous blue jelly beans. Percy reasoned that this book would help his fellow demigods, instructing them on how to properly defeat most of the infamous monsters that they might happen to come across.

Right after finishing his narration of this book, Percy reveals that after the events of The Blood of Olympus , he and the rest of the Seven started the tradition of monthly Argo II reunion parties, and he is quite worried about being late to the current one.

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Son of Sobek [ ]

The Staff of Serapis [ ]

While Percy himself never actually appears in this story, is mentioned multiple times by Annabeth, who was taking the subway to his apartment before encountering Sadie , and is implied to have gone there after her adventure.

The Crown of Ptolemy [ ]

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

Apollo mentioned Percy when thinking about the pros of twenty-first-century demigods, he compliments the son of Poseidon's driving skills. Meg also mentioned that Percy taught her not to jinx her quests.

The Burning Maze [ ]

Grover mentions Percy, wishing he were with them. Apollo also mentions constantly how handy the son of Poseidon could be on their quest.

The Tyrant's Tomb [ ]

Apollo mentions the son of Poseidon when entering Camp Jupiter. He later thinks of a story he heard of Percy using Dean Martin to scare away a flock of attacking Stymphalian Birds and uses the same tactic on some attacking giant ravens .

The Tower of Nero [ ]

Having just graduated high school, he sets out west with Annabeth and Grover. After Apollo regains his godhood, he visits him and Annabeth at New Rome University where he is still struggling to figure out a major. Annabeth also seems disgusted at sharing a dorm with him. They express their sadness at Jason's death and he says he misses his mother's cooking. At that Apollo summons a plate for blue chocolate chip cookies and in surprise, he takes back most of what he said about the sun god.

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Hammer of Thor [ ]

Percy is mentioned by Annabeth to Magnus when he asks her advice about travelling through the oceans and she responds by saying it is time for Magnus to meet Percy Jackson, her boyfriend.

The Ship of the Dead [ ]

Percy and Annabeth were in Boston to help train Magnus Chase and his friend, Alex Fierro , for the Quest to stop Naglfar from Sailing . Percy quickly got along with Magnus and told him that SPQR means "These Romans are Crazy". Percy tried to teach Magnus how to jump off a ship, handle the masts, control a ship, and try hand to hand combat in the bottom of the ocean. It was hard for Percy to train Magnus however, because every time he looked at him, his eye twitched, the stress of the weekend getting to him. Percy asked if Magnus was okay when Magnus tried to dive, but fell on the deck instead. When Sumarbrander started talking, Magnus introduced him to Percy and Annabeth. Percy was nervous when the sword flew to him, and learned that Riptide was actually a girl. Percy uncapped the pen and made it a sword so Riptide and Jack could bond with each other. Percy was shocked that she was a girl, but Alex told him to respect the gender. Percy thought it was strange that he never knew, and Annabeth teased him, saying he didn't know the pen could write until the year before. The four of them then got lunch from Fadlan's Falafel , and when Annabeth said that heroes can never be ready, they just have to try the best as they can, Percy said they haven't died yet, and Annabeth said that they keep trying. Percy put his arm around her and he kissed her curls on her head, making Magnus's heart do a twist, jealous that they would live to adulthood. Percy also said how excited he was to babysit his baby sister, Estelle Blofis , and said that she was awesome and drools a lot. Annabeth commented that she and Percy were similar because they both drooled.

Percy apologized that he couldn't help Magnus more, because the sea is unpredictable. Alex said that at least he felt better that time and that he can turn into a dolphin to save him, and Percy was shocked that he could do that. When Alex offered to show him, Percy said that he believed him because his friend, Frank Zhang , is a shapeshifter. Percy said that having a good team is better than having good sea skills. Percy also told Magnus advice about sea gods that would help him: they are territorial about their stuff, like Kymopoleia , Poseidon , Triton , and Galatea. Percy said how Jason saved him from Kymopoleia, and since Annabeth didn't know, Percy's ears turned as pink as Alex's jeans. He then said he was looking at things all wrong: you do not need a plan, you just need to improvise. Annabeth said as a daughter of Athena , she cannot endorse that, but Percy said that Annabeth is crazy smart and good at improvising, and that instead of training with him, he should have trained with Annabeth instead. Annabeth agreed that that was sweet and kissed him on the cheek. Alex called him Seaweed Brain, and Percy told him to not start with the nickname too. Before he left, Percy told Alex he would quote him on what he said about flaunting the weird. Percy and Magnus shook hands before he left. The last they saw of them, Percy was driving his Prius on First Avenue singing along to Led Zeppelin on the radio, with Annabeth laughing at his bad voice. Percy and Annabeth's future and Percy's little sister, Estelle, motivated Magnus to succeed on his quest.

When Magnus got home, he called Percy and Annabeth, who just arrived in New Rome . Percy told Annabeth to ask Magnus if he followed his advice on the quest, and Magnus told her to tell Percy that he kept his butt clenched like he said. Percy was upset during the phone call because of Jason's death.

Un Natale Mezzosangue [ ]

Nico takes Percy to Florence after the son of Poseidon struggles with finding a gift for Annabeth. The son of Hades takes him to store owned by Charu , the last of the Etruscan gods. After asking questions about Annabeth, he gives the son of Poseidon a bracelet of keys and asks him to explain the meaning of Christmas. After Percy explains the universal meaning of friendship and family behind the holiday, he is given the gift and the demigods leave.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star [ ]

Percy appears to Nico in a nightmare of when Nico was trapped in the bronze jar by Otis and Ephialtes . In the dream, Percy stands at the height of a Titan and, crying, tells Nico that he has to go, that "we made a mistake. You have to fix it."

When he and Annabeth are studying for an English test, they receive an Iris Message from Nico and Will, who explain their quest to go to Tartarus to save Bob . Percy and Annabeth express their guilt that they forgot about Bob. After the son of Poseidon and daughter of Athena fail to talk them out of it, they tell the sons of Hades and Apollo that their best chance at surviving Tartarus is to stick together.

Hades later reveals to Nico that Percy had changed a lot of things for the gods, making them rethink their priorities, behaviors and standards. Hades in particular was affected by Percy's actions, causing Hades to rethink sending Nico after Bob when he realized that it put Will in danger too.

The Court of the Dead [ ]

Having reformed, the Minotaur , now going by his real name of Asterion, expresses a grudging respect for Percy's skill and a desire to make amends with him. However, Percy is currently too busy with his first semester at New Rome University . Asterion reveals that it took him over a year to regenerate in Tartarus after Percy last killed him and by then, the Doors of Death had been closed and things had changed.

Despite Percy and Annabeth being in New Rome during Pirithous ' plot to take over the Underworld , Nico decides not to ask them for help as they made it to college and deserve a life beyond quests and battles.

Appearance [ ]

Percy has tan skin, disheveled, jet-black hair swept to one side as "if he just took a walk to the beach" and sea-green eyes, which he inherited from his father and grandmother. He also has a sarcastic, troublemaker smile. Percy gets his handsome looks from his father, a reason why Medusa wanted to preserve a statue of him. He was complimented by Calypso, who then asked whether he was in love, Calypso states, "If you could see your face. Of course, you."

At the beginning of the series, Percy was average in athletics but later from his training, becomes fit, muscular, and lean. Piper notes that he does not appear as fit as Jason, but he is most likely just as strong. He is described in Camp Half Blood Confidential as having a "wiry build". He obtained a gray streak of hair in The Titan's Curse from holding the sky but has since lost it, as stated in The Mark of Athena . After he slew Polybotes in The Son of Neptune , Percy received a tattoo of a trident and SPQR on the underside of his left arm to signify that he is a full member of the Roman Twelfth Legion Fulminata . After their reunion in The Mark of Athena , Annabeth says that Percy grew even more handsome, muscular, taller, and tanner.

Hazel even stated that "[Percy] had the good looks of a Roman god." According to Piper in The Mark of Athena , Percy smells like the sea, looks like a skater and a troublemaker, but she can still see what women would like about him, even if he isn't her type. Piper later states that when Percy pleads, his sea-green eyes seemed to be "like a cute baby seal that needed help" and marvels at how Annabeth had ever won an argument with him.

In The Hidden Oracle , the god Apollo is struck by Percy's close resemblance to his father Poseidon, noting that he had the same handsome features, "which easily shifted from humor to anger." He was noted to have long, nimble fingers, with Apollo claiming that Percy's hands were perfect for a musician. Percy wore tattered jeans and a hoodie that says AHS swim team on it.

In The Ship of the Dead , Percy wore an orange T-shirt, jeans, and battered white leather Reeboks.

In Wrath of the Triple Goddess , Grover notices that Percy doesn't have hugely visible muscles when he's dressed up in a Roman costume which Grover had expected of his best friend. Percy explains that he's a swimmer with a swimmer's build, not a bodybuilder. However, Grover is clearly unimpressed with Percy's level of ripped-ness.

After coming into contact with Beast Breath , Percy's arms became purple octopus tentacles. Thankfully, this was reversed.

Personality [ ]

According to Kronos, Percy inherited Poseidon's "too changeable, unpredictable" nature. Percy is a very kind-hearted, brave-spirited, natural leader. Many people tell him he is brave, such as friends, family, strangers, and even gods. He has the same "brooding" look as his father, which always had him branded as a rebel; his mother has a rebellious streak just like him. Percy is characterized by his sarcastic, smart sense of humor, and laid-back demeanor. His girlfriend Annabeth mentions that he is actually quite smart, but seems to act dumb.

Percy is somewhat short-tempered and thus has trouble controlling his anger, such as when he sees bullying. He can be derisively sarcastic and moody, especially when someone tries to manipulate him or forces him to obey. He does not like to follow rules, as shown when he escapes camp to go on the quest to save Grover, and when he bowed to Poseidon before Zeus . Like many heroes, Percy is very reckless and tends to do or blurt out things before thinking, causing him to get into a lot of trouble. He feels responsible for everyone and anything which goes wrong.

According to Annabeth, Percy is obtuse, meaning he doesn't always see the obvious even when it is right in front of him, such as people's feelings and what they are trying to say indirectly. He has romantic feelings for Annabeth over the course of the series, but he finally confirms them in The Last Olympian . Despite this he is perceptive when he needs to be, Percy could tell that Gaea wanted to keep him alive and gambled his life knowing that he was too valuable to Gaea for him to die at that time.

Although he has many friends in Camp Half-Blood, Percy is considered a troublemaker in school with a track record of expulsions, like most demigods. His dyslexia makes learning and reading difficult and his ADHD makes it hard for him to be attentive or to sit still in class. He has never been one of the "cool" kids in class because he hangs out with supposedly "un-cool" people, such as his best friend Grover Underwood or his half-brother Tyson. Possibly because of his bad history in school, Percy feels a strong level of affection and attachment to Camp Half-Blood. In The House of Hades , Hazel states that Percy was a child of Poseidon's better nature: powerful, but gentle and helpful, a person that would guide ships safely to the shore rather than destroy them.

After getting his memories taken by Hera , living on the streets and fighting monsters, Percy has developed a "wolf stare" that says "No matter how bad you think you are, I'm worse," which enables him to scare off people like gangsters. He is not afraid of anything in the mortal world anymore, including gangs. He notes that it is probably Lupa 's influence on him, as he stayed with her pack for weeks. Despite being very confident in his own abilities, Hazel Levesque can sense there is a quiet sadness in Percy similar to Jason, like he saw his destiny and knew that one day he would face a monster he couldn't beat.

While in Tartarus in The House of Hades , Percy is starting to show a darker and more dangerous side of himself in his personality. He begins to question himself about his morality, and if he's really a good hero or not. He wonders about the people he had previously treated with apathy: Bob , Calypso, and Nico di Angelo . After his return, he tries to make up for his tattered relationship with Nico by thanking him for visiting Iapetus. While battling Akhlys , Percy taps into his rage and controls poison to overwhelm Akhlys—to the point where even Annabeth is terrified of him. He was shown to be more prone to aggression when he vows to destroy Gaea and avenge Bob and Damasen , something which doesn't seem to disappear towards the end of the book.

After the events of The Blood of Olympus , Percy seems to be less impulsive. He has grown a bit tired of the constant dangers of a demigod and looks forward to living a normal peaceful life as much as possible. The cunning sorcerer, Setne tried to manipulate Percy, but it backfired on him as Percy succeeded in capturing him. Percy gives more priority to his family and even turns down Apollo's offer to go on a dangerous quest to help the latter regain his godhood. However, he does small favors to others as it is his principle to aid demigods as much as possible, such as escorting Apollo and Meg to Camp Half-Blood at for Meg's sake and training Magnus Chase for a voyage across the sea at Annabeth's request.

At the end of The Tower of Nero , Percy seems to be more lighthearted and even softens up to Apollo than before (much better than how it was at the start, in The Hidden Oracle ) as he has settled down with the hope of going to college, which is a much different view point from the start as he actually looks forward to it and somehow, with the help of Annabeth has actually done well in his exams. He has lost his impulsiveness and has matured to a lighthearted cheerful person who is at his happiest with Annabeth.

In The Last Olympian , Percy expresses to Hermes a hope that the gods can change for the better, although Hermes is doubtful about this. The gods actions during the Second Giant War , including breaking some of their promises to Percy, seem to prove that Hermes was right. However, in The Sun and the Star: A Nico di Angelo Adventure , Hades reveals that Percy's optimism and attempts to get the gods to change their nature were not without success. According to Hades, Percy had changed a lot of things for the gods, making them rethink their priorities, standards and behaviors. Hades at least changed because of this, rethinking sending his son on a dangerous quest after realizing that Nico could lose someone else that he loved in the process and visiting Nico in a dream with Nico's mother and sister to give his son closure and express his pride in Nico.

In The Chalice of the Gods , Poseidon tells Percy that he's saved the world multiple times and conquered enemies that would scare most immortals, but what proves that he's a true hero is his smaller acts such as accepting Geras ' challenge instead of just walking away and leaving Ganymede to his fate. In doing so, Percy honored his promise, not because the world was at stake or for a letter of recommendation, but because that's just who he is, proving that he's a true hero. Percy gets emotional about how well Poseidon understands him, but his experience with Ganymede only cements Percy's desire to remain mortal and live out the rest of his life rather than becoming a god. Percy literally embraces Geras, who is the god of old age, and embraces the idea of growing older and looking back on a good life, embracing Geras like he's an old friend. In doing so, Percy earns Geras' respect as old age is never embraced and gives the god hope that not everyone is like the Olympians who have turned their backs on old age.

Fatal Flaw [ ]

According to Athena, Percy's fatal flaw is excessive personal loyalty: he would risk the world and even his own life to save his friends and family. He sometimes saves strangers or enemies simply because he empathizes with them. When Percy protests that personal loyalty isn't all that bad, Athena says "The most dangerous flaws are good in moderation" The goddess was obviously displeased that her own daughter is an object of that loyalty. Kronos previously exploited this trait in The Lightning Thief (Sally Jackson), The Sea of Monsters (Grover), and The Titan's Curse (Annabeth Chase). In The Son of Neptune , Mars states to Frank that Percy's flaw would hinder the completion of the Prophecy of Seven unless his son manages to intervene, which worries Frank, but Hera states that his fatal flaw will keep the seven together.

Fears [ ]

Percy is afraid of the Great Prophecy. When Phobos makes Percy see his worst fear in The Demigod Files story , Percy saw that his mistake regarding Olympus would set the camp in flames with his friends inside, which could be interpreted as losing those close to him.

As a son of Poseidon, Percy is claustrophobic. This is because in the Son of Neptune , he drowned in a muskeg of an Alaskan bog. and another reason is that he is used to open, free and wild places like the sea. However, his claustrophobia doesn't seem to bother him in The Battle of the Labyrinth , so it could simply be that he simply becomes restless when confined, but is still functional and his previous phobia now only acts as a mild annoyance.

Percy is also possibly aerophobic. Aerophobia, the fear of flying, is shown in The Blood of Olympus during the final battle against Gaea when he is flying in the claws of Frank Zhang shapeshifted into a dragon. This fear likely stems from him being a son of Poseidon , who has a rivalry with Zeus , the god of the sky. However, he's okay with flying on a Pegasus , like his steed Blackjack , because his father created horses and considers them "neutral territory".

Abilities and Tools [ ]

As a son of Poseidon, Percy is an extremely powerful individual and one of the most powerful demigods in the series. The only other demigods whose powers rival his are Thalia Grace, Nico di Angelo and Jason Grace. He has fought and defeated many monsters probably more than any other demigod in the series, including other demigods, gods, and Titans. On more than one occasion, Percy has contributed to the salvation of Olympus and the world as a whole. Nico later states in The Mark of Athena that Percy is the most powerful demigod that he has ever met which includes the other members of the Seven who are all extremely powerful in their own right such as Frank Zhang and Jason Grace , the latter of whom is depicted as being nearly equal with Percy in terms of sheer power. In The Chalice of the Gods , it's mentioned that Percy mostly has full control over his powers, but they can get away from him in moments of rage. Percy's display of power in one of these moments is enough to frighten a river god to tears. In The House of Hades and The Chalice of the Gods , Percy's moments of anger led to him going so far as to snatch control of a god's domain from them and briefly turn it against them.

Riptide

Relationships [ ]

Love Interests [ ]

Percy with Annabeth Chase , his girlfriend and best friend.

Annabeth Chase is portrayed in the series as Percy's best friend and primary love interest. When Percy first wakes up in The Lightning Thief , he describes her as a "pretty girl with princess curls." She nursed him back to health after the Minotaur attack. Annabeth disliked Percy when they first met because their parents have a rivalry with each other. Percy eventually developed a crush on Annabeth as they got to know each other through their common quests.

Aphrodite told Percy that he and Annabeth will have a "tragic love life." When Luke Castellan was still around, Percy would get jealous about how Annabeth would get protective and caring toward him whenever Luke was accused despite his actions against them. It was Luke, though, who made Percy realize his true feelings for Annabeth in The Last Olympian .

Annabeth has kissed Percy four times in the series. Once, after winning the chariot race in The Sea of Monsters , though that was on the cheek. In The Battle of the Labyrinth , she kissed him again for luck as she leaves him to fight the telekhines at Mount Saint Helens. Later in the Dining Pavilion of Camp Half-Blood when Percy was trying to show his feelings towards her prior to all the other campers throwing them in the canoe lake in The Last Olympian and again underwater in the canoe lake which Percy described as "pretty much the best underwater kiss of all time." It is well mentioned that Annabeth and Percy have officially become a couple. Annabeth tells Piper McLean that Percy kissed her good night before he disappeared, in The Lost Hero . Percy mentions in The Son of Neptune that whenever he did something stupid Annabeth would kiss him, going on to say that she must have kissed him a lot, which meant he probably did stupid things a lot. In The Mark of Athena , they kiss many times: once when they reunite, once before Percy, Piper, and Jason leave to meet Bacchus, twice in the stables on the Argo II , once before Annabeth leaves with Piper and Hazel to search for a ghost at Charlestown Harbor, once before Annabeth goes to find the map for the Mark of Athena, once after Percy successfully defeats Chrysaor , and once before they depart (when Annabeth goes on a motorcycle with Tiberinus and Rhea Silvia ).

Percy and Annabeth have officially become a couple and had been dating for four months before he disappeared a short time before The Lost Hero . When Percy went missing, Annabeth was out of sorts trying to find him (even counting how long it's been up to the minute).

In the beginning of The Son of Neptune , Percy's only memory of his past life is Annabeth, but it is "frustratingly dim." As the story progressed, she becomes the first person he remembers fully. When the Argo II approaches, with Annabeth on it, Percy states that "If things went right, today would be the best day ever." Percy gets furious at Hera when she states that Annabeth is a troublemaker who will cause the most problems during the quest for Greece and Rome, in which Percy states, "She's the person I want most watching my back," and with a fist of water he smashes Hera in anger. Ironically, Annabeth greatly helped in the quest.

At the beginning of The Mark of Athena , Annabeth and Percy kiss after so long apart but then Annabeth judo-flips Percy for being gone for so long. After escaping New Rome and spend some time in the Stables of the Argo 2, Percy talks to Annabeth that he wanted the two of them to retire from the crazy Demigod life, go to college together in New Rome, and possibly start a family, which got Annabeth flustered as normally she is the one that makes the plans. In the end of the book, they fall into Tartarus holding hands when Percy swears that he will never let her go again.

In The House of Hades , Annabeth and Percy's relationship faces its hardest challenges ever while they try to escape Tartarus. However, they make it through by mostly focusing on the life they want to have together in the future. Percy sees a possibility of a life of college and marriage with Annabeth while at Camp Jupiter when inside the protected city of New Rome , which could most likely become their future after the Second Demigod Civil War . While they were having those two months of dating they had become closer, romantic and more loving toward each other.

When preparing Annabeth's cousin for a quest in The Ship of the Dead , the two are looking forward to spending time together in college.

Rachel Elizabeth Dare , his friend.

Rachel Elizabeth Dare is Percy's only human love interest. Before The Last Olympian , Percy notes that he spent a great deal of time with Rachel. He stated that while he was in the mortal world, he could always call Rachel and she'd be there so they could hang out together. In the beginning of The Last Olympian , the two are seen on the beach in Paul Blofis 's Prius driving around. Percy says it was as if his dad were keeping the sea nice, just for them.

Calypso , who he spent two weeks with on her island.

Calypso and Percy first met when Percy was stranded on her phantom island of Ogygia . Calypso had healed Percy after he was severely weakened at Mount Saint Helens . Percy later learns that the immortal Calypso was condemned to live on the island forever after supporting her father, Atlas. She asks him to join her and live with her forever where he would become immortal, but he turns her down, even though it would save him from the prophecy (if he had stayed on the island, he would never turn 16). Calypso was in love with Percy, and he somewhat loved her as well. Percy considered her more beautiful than Aphrodite, "but I wouldn't say that out loud or she'd blast me to ashes,". In The Last Olympian , Percy requested that the Olympians show leniency to the Titans who did not support Kronos , freeing Calypso from her prison. Percy has even stated, that for as long as he lived, she would always be his biggest "what-if". It was revealed that Hera sent Percy to Calypso so she could heal him, while the Fates allowed Percy on the island as he was the kind of person Calypso couldn't help but fall in love with. However, like all other heroes that land on her island, Percy had to leave her, which too was part of her punishment.

In The House of Hades , Calypso reappears. It is known that, when Percy made the gods swear to free her from her prison, she was forgotten, staying trapped on Ogygia. She blamed the gods for this, but also Annabeth, as she thought it was Annabeth's fault she was alone. Although she cursed Annabeth for it, Percy did not blame her but instead blamed himself for not ensuring that the gods freed her from her island.

Friends [ ]

Grover Underwood , his best friend and protector.

Grover and Percy have been best friends since they were in middle school in Yancy Academy . At the time, Percy would protect him from bullies and others that would pick on him, but he was not aware of Grover being a satyr. Grover is also the one who helped Percy to get to Camp Half-Blood and helped him on his very first quest in The Lightning Thief . Their friendship is as deep as any of Percy's relationships as shown in The Sea of Monsters , when he saved Grover from being killed by the Giant cyclops Polyphemus and Grover establishing an Empathy Link that connects them emotionally allowing him to know if the other is in danger and what their feelings are (such as when Percy got done talking with Aphrodite and Grover knew that she and him were talking about his love life). Grover had all the satyrs and nature spirits looking for Percy when he vanished in The Lost Hero .

In The Chalice of the Gods , Grover tells Percy that the thought of losing him to Geras was the second worst experience of his life behind Grover's experiences with Polyphemus in the Sea of Monsters .

In Wrath of the Triple Goddess , Grover is afraid that Percy and Annabeth will leave him behind when they move to California, but Percy promises they could visit each other whenever they want. Percy becomes angry and horrified when Grover takes a dangerous risk in their quest when using his grounding ability. In addition, the empathy link between the two is shown to still be strong, allowing them to understand each other at times without even having to speak.

Jason Grace , one of his best friends.

Percy and Jason learned of each other's existence in The Lost Hero and The Son of Neptune . Jason figured out that Percy was at the Roman camp, and probably didn't know who he was. As for Percy, he suspected that Jason and Reyna were a couple, and felt awkward replacing him as praetor, and thought it would be awkward when Jason came back. The sole reason Jason went back to Camp Jupiter was to find Percy.

Percy and Jason meet in The Mark of Athena at Camp Jupiter . They immediately bond, and Jason thinks it isn't surprising that Percy was made Praetor . They also bond over how they both outrank Octavian and give each other a fist bump. Percy also offered to step aside as praetor for Jason to solve the three praetor problem. Percy comments that he looks nothing like his sister, Thalia Grace , and they both thank each other for everything they did for both camps.

However, Jason and Percy had a slight rivalry. When they fought over the same chair at dinner, they had a silent standoff and sparks literally flew from Jason's hands, until they ceded the chair to Annabeth. Percy also became suspicious of Jason when he wasn't sure if he heard a legend that began the Greek and Roman rivalry. Later, when they were in Kansas, Percy, Piper, and Jason went to meet Bacchus , and they both wanted to summon their horses, and they had a little challenge to see which "friend" got there first. Blackjack got there first before Tempest , and Percy and Jason both complimented each other on their respective horses. Percy also told Blackjack that Jason was a friend, despite their rivalry. After Bacchus left, Percy and Jason were possessed by Eidolons and drew their swords, forced to fight each other, and tried to kill each other until Piper knocked them both out. When they went back to the Argo II , Jason apologized to Percy got knocking him out, but they soon argued how they would've been able to kill each other until Annabeth interrupted. Soon they were possessed again and tried to kill each other yet again. They forgave each other, but they harbored a small grudge about it, with Jason having a bit of resentment in his voice when he talked to Percy, calling him "Captain Salt Water".

Jason and Percy became closer as the voyage went on, and worked together to fight the Romans at Charleston . And after they defeated Chrysaor , Jason offered to drive the ship so Percy could get some sleep. Percy also told Jason about how Nico di Angelo tricked him and turned him in to Hades . Percy also examined his fatal flaw and realized he felt a responsibility for everyone on the ship, including Jason. Percy also felt more confident when he collaborated with Jason to defeat their enemies, and felt more capable of solving problems. Percy also healed Jason from drowning when they were almost drowned by Hagno . Jason thanked him and clasped his hand. Percy and Jason also collaborated well tracking down Nico and defeating Otis and Ephialtes, and they could understand what they were saying since they thought the same way. As Percy and Jason defeated the giants, Percy could feel a spark of friendship. Percy realized that he and Jason thought very similarly. Percy clapped him on the soldier when they defeated the giants. When they got back on the ship, Jason elbowed Percy and said they weren't such a bad team.

After Percy fell into Tartarus , Jason felt guilty and said he should have flown down to save both Annabeth and Percy, and should have payed attention. In relation to this, Jason was determined to get to Epirus to save the both of them. In The House of Hades , Jason gave Percy a bear hug when he was rescued from Tartarus. Percy was very supportive when he found out that Jason resigned as praetor for Frank and had no arguments about it. Jason also found out that Nico had a crush on Percy, but he kept the secret.

In The Blood of Olympus , Percy and Jason are very close friends. Before Jason went to Ithaca , Percy pulled Jason aside and asked him to protect Annabeth, since it was the first time they were apart since Tartarus. Jason squeezed Percy's shoulder and promised to get her back safely. Percy and Jason also called each other "bros", and when Annabeth said they shouldn't go together to see Nike , they said they might kill each other again like in Kansas, calling each other "my bro Jason" and "my bro Percy". Percy later offered for him and Jason to face Mimas and get the Makhai . Later, when there was a storm, Percy and Jason went to see what was causing the storm, and Jason appreciated that Percy wasn't treating him like a glass vase after his injury, and could tell Jason wanted to be back in action. They went underwater to find what was causing the storm, when Percy said that Atlantis was a myth, Jason said that they dealt with myths and that he could see how Annabeth was the brains of the operation, and Percy told Jason to shut up. Jason freaked out when Kymopoleia and Polybotes poisoned Percy and tried to make him choke, and Jason demanded that they let him go. He charged at the giant to help him, but Polybotes blocked him with his Trident. He ended up saving Percy.

After Jason saved Percy, Percy thanked Jason for saving his life, and Jason said that's what people do for their friends. Percy told Jason to not tell anyone about him saving him, and Jason promised to keep it, since Percy would never hear the end of it. Percy confided in him that felt like he deserved to choke after what he did to Akhlys , and how it felt good choking the goddess, and if Annabeth hadn't stopped him, he didn't know what would've happened. He said he thought his choking was payback from the Fates for what he did to her, and that's why he didn't try to control the poison and get it away from him. Percy said it sounded crazy, but Jason understood. Jason confessed that he admired Percy for turning down his immortality. Percy was also proud of Jason when he found his own cure to his wound. Percy later got Jason, along with the rest of the crew, gelato. Later, before Percy went to the Acropolis of Athens , he offered his hand to Jason and called him "bro", saying he will be the one killing giants until they meet again. When they returned to Camp Half-Blood , Jason grinned when Percy said, "Greeks, let's um, fight stuff" and thought that Greeks weren't organized, but they made up for it with enthusiasm. Jason and Percy kept in touch, going to monthly Argo II reunion meetings.

In The Ship of the Dead , Percy mentioned to Magnus Chase and Alex Fierro how Jason saved him from Kymopoleia. He later cried when he found out that Jason died.

Thalia Grace , his close friend.

Throughout The Lightning Thief , Percy has heard stories of Thalia, the only other child of the Big Three (besides himself) who was born after the Pact . Percy feels both inspired and saddened when he learns how Thalia sacrificed herself to protect Annabeth, Luke, and Grover on their way to camp.

Percy first meets Thalia at the ending of The Sea of Monsters when she was turned back into mortal form with the Golden Fleece , introducing herself as the daughter of Zeus. As a daughter of Zeus, Thalia was always looked at when in difficult situations, taught to master more complex skills, such as playing with the mist, making Percy feel rather intimidated by her. During The Titan's Curse , their relationship becomes a love-hate relationship that a brother and sister would have, even going as far as fighting with their elemental powers. By the end of the quest however, Thalia considers him a friend, showing him this when she hugged him after she joined the hunt and became a Hunters of Artemis , stating "I am honoring a friend." Annabeth once stated that Percy reminded her of Thalia a great deal, and that they would either have been best friends or strangled each other.

Nico di Angelo , his friend.

Nico and Percy met in The Titan's Curse after rescuing him from Westover Hall and. Nico has the ability to annoy Percy Jackson quite easily when they first met by asking Percy several questions. Nico asked if Annabeth was his girlfriend, why he and Thalia fought so much, and other questions, which made Percy want to feed him to the wolves and/or strangle him. But Percy felt horrible for Nico when Bianca abandoned him to join the Hunters of Artemis and thought it was selfish of her to abandon him like that. As Nico and Percy get to know each other, Percy feels bad for Nico after Bianca abandons him and tries to protect him while playing Capture the Flag, which made Percy realize he was acting like his mom. As for Nico, Percy reminded him of heroes from Mythomagic and pirates, and developed a crush on him. He thought he was a hero and could do no wrong. Nico cheered Percy on during Capture the flag. Before he left for the quest, Nico found him and asked if he was going on the quest. Percy wanted to lie to him, but looking in his eyes, he knew he couldn't say no, and told him the truth. Nico covered for Percy so he could go on the quest, but made him promise to protect her. Percy didn't want to make any promises, but Nico forced him to promise, and Percy promised to do his best. Nico wished him luck and ran off. Percy also convinced Nico not to go on the quest himself.

After Bianca dies, Percy felt very guilty for her death and immediately thought about who will tell Nico. It is Percy that decides to break the news to Nico. Nico takes it very hard and begins to hate Percy, blaming him for his sister's death before running away from camp, telling him he promised to protect her and that he wished he was dead. However, another reason Nico ran away was that he was afraid of his crush on Percy. After Nico ran away, Percy decided to keep his parentage a secret from Chiron and decided to be the hero in the Great Prophecy in order to make sure Nico wouldn't go through more pain. Percy searched for Nico all spring, to no avail. Nico was afraid of himself and afraid of his feelings for Percy, due to internalized homophobia, which persisted for years.

During The Battle of the Labyrinth , Percy has dreams about Nico and feels bad for him, but he became afraid that he would try to kill him as revenge to bring Bianca back. While searching for Daedalus in the Labyrinth , Percy runs into Nico at the Triple G Ranch . Nico becomes furious at Percy and orders him to go away, and thinks he will kill him. Percy calms down when he finds out that he wasn't planning to kill him, after Nico said Bianca's soul is worth more than his. He completes a job for Geryon to free Nico, even at the risk of Percy having to stay there himself if he fails. Even though Geryon double-crossed Percy, after his defeat, Percy asks Nico to stay on the ranch to keep him safe. In return, Percy helps Nico summon Bianca's ghost, who tells him to forgive Percy. The next day, Nico is jealous that Bianca appeared for Percy and not him, but he wasn't as angry at Percy and needed time to think.

Nico rushed into the Labyrinth again after Minos told him Percy was in danger, showing that he indeed cared about Percy. However, when Percy found out Nico ran back into the maze, Percy wanted to return to the maze to find him. Percy and Nico were reunited at Daedalus' Workshop and Nico apologized to Percy, saying he was tricked by Minos and wanted to save him. Nico then saved Percy and the others by declaring himself the ghost king, finally becoming friends. During the quest, Nico saved Percy many times, especially when Kronos first rose from his sarcophagus in Luke 's body; creating a large wall of black rock between them. He even aided Percy when the Titan Army began to attack Camp Half-Blood, but refused to stay. Also on the quest, Nico asked Percy if he really thought he would belong at Camp Half-Blood , Percy hesitated, thinking about how he had creeped him out when he declared himself the Ghost King.

After the Battle of the Labyrinth , Percy ran into Nico in the woods and said that he could've sat with him at dinner, but Nico declined, saying he wasn't staying at Camp, and said he wasn't welcome at Camp. Nico wanted to discover his past that he knew nothing about. Percy wanted to argue, but he realized there was a reason why Pan didn't address him, and that he would have to find his own dark way. Percy then said he hoped he and Nico wouldn't be enemies, and Nico apologized for being a brat and said he should've listened to him about Bianca. The two parted ways when Percy gave Nico his figurine and they shook hands, and promised to keep in touch. Nico later appeared in Percy's apartment a few months later at his birthday party, and told him the fates of Minos and Daedalus. Nico wanted to tell him about how to bathe in the River Styx, but them asked if he had blue birthday cake. Percy realized he had never been invited to a birthday party before and invited him in, saying they had a lot to talk about.

In The Demigod Files , Percy and Nico meet again with Thalia Grace when the three of them are summoned and sent to the Underworld by Persephone . When he finds out about Hades' Sword being stolen, Percy doesn't want anything to do with Hades but Nico wanted to find the sword for his father and didn't want it to fall in Kronos ' hands. Percy knew he wanted to impress his father and could see it in his face, so he decided to help him, not wanting him to go alone. Nico was amazed at Percy when he controlled the River Lethe and helped heal him after. Nico was also amazed when Percy defeated Iapetus . After the quest was over, Nico, Percy, and Thalia said their goodbyes on a balcony, and Nico decided to stay in the Underworld to help his dad. Percy and Nico shook hands and Percy had Nico promise to call him if he needed anything.

In The Last Olympian , Percy and Nico were reunited, and Nico told Percy he did a good job scaring the satyrs. Percy asked if he was there to see Juniper and Nico blushed and said he just stumbled in on their conversation, most likely to hide his crush on Percy. Nico reassured Percy that Beckendorf 's death wasn't his fault, and said he spoke to his ghost. Nico and Percy then talked about the plan for Percy to bathe in the Styx. Though Percy was unsure, he trusted Nico and went on with the plan. Percy and Nico met May Castellan and later Sally Jackson , where Nico pleaded with her to give Percy the blessing to bathe in the River. In order to gain information on his mother , Nico lead Percy to the Underworld to unknowingly speak to his father, Hades . Hades double-crossed Nico and put Percy in his dungeon, making Nico angry at him, since he wasn't supposed to hurt Percy or arrest him, and he was only supposed to talk to him.

Nico later helped Percy escape and swore on the River Styx and said he didn't know what he was planning, but Percy was angry and wanted to strangle him, but knew there was no point in arguing. They escaped and Percy gave Nico ambrosia to heal from his fight, and caught him before he passed out again. After Nico and Percy met with Achilles , Nico had second thoughts on Percy bathing in the river, but Percy said it was his idea and to wait for him, and that if he died, he could be the hero of the prophecy. Nico was very scared when Percy woke up and asked if he was alright, and tried to protect him from his father and his soldiers. After it was done, Percy told Nico to stay in the underworld and help his father, since he owed him, which made Nico believe that he didn't trust him and apologized to him, which Percy didn't accept. It is later revealed that Nico tried to make Percy fall in love with him by bathing in the Styx.

Nico ended up doing what Percy said and convincing his father, showing up in the middle of the Battle of Manhattan to help Percy, and asked if it was too late to join the party. Nico encouraged Percy to go to Olympus , while he helped Sally and Paul, and said that he would handle the army. Percy later told the gods on Olympus that Nico proved to him that no one deserved to be left out, and that every god deserves a cabin at Camp. Nico also warned Percy and Annabeth that Rachel was going to Half-Blood Hill , and they went to find her. After the events of the book, one of the reasons why Nico left Camp again was his sadness of Percy and Annabeth getting together. In The Lost Hero , Annabeth mentions that he is looking for Percy.

In The Son of Neptune , Hazel introduces Percy, who lost his memory, to Nico. Nico was shocked when he saw him but regained his composure and shook his hand, shocked to see his crush. Percy and Nico studied each other warily, and Percy thought he knew him, and Nico responded, "do you?". Nico told Percy about the Second Titan War , but omitted details that Percy was involved in. Hazel later questioned Nico about this, and Nico told Hazel that he couldn't say much about Percy due to a promise he made with his father, but said he was one of the good guys and dangerous only to his enemies. Percy later questioned Frank Zhang about Nico, wanting to know more about him. At dinner, Percy questioned Nico, asking if they met before, but Nico lies and said he spent most of his time in the Underworld and unless he saw him there, they never met. Nico didn't want to talk to him much, and on the way to a senate meeting, Nico waved to Percy but went back to talking to Gwendolyn , indicating that he didn't want to talk to the son of Poseidon. However, Nico was proud of Hazel when she stood for Percy, letting him into the Fifth Cohort . He also explained to Percy how Thanatos and Pluto were different. After Percy got his memory back, Percy wanted to wring Nico's neck for keeping secrets from him, but he wanted to find him since he was Hazel's brother.

In The Mark of Athena , Percy dreamed of Nico and found out he was imprisoned in a bronze jar. However, Percy had mixed feelings about Nico, and was still mad at him for tricking him to go to Hades palace. He was also mad at him for hiding his last from him and thought of scathing things to say to him. But he wanted to rescue him and couldn't stand seeing him in pain in a bronze jar, and didn't want him to suffocate him to death. He also wanted to find him because he knew where the Doors of Death were. In Rome, he helped rescue him with Jason and piper, and was the most determined out of the three to rescue him. However, he was annoyed when he could barely crawl out of the jar, and wanted him to crawl more and groan less. When they went back on to the Argo II , Percy felt so sorry for him he couldn't muster much anger at him. Nico apologized to Percy for keeping his past from him and said he knew about both camps, but couldn't tell due to a promise to his father. Nico also told Percy the Doors of Death were in Tartarus. When Percy later fell into Tartarus, as Nico tried to save him, he had Nico promise to lead the Argo II crew to the other side. Back on the ship later, Nico was determined to rescue Percy and knew he would make it back from Tartarus. Nico said that Percy is the strongest demigod he knows, and that he and Annabeth would make it through Tartarus, but he was secretly unsure if he would live.

In The House of Hades , Percy realizes that Nico indirectly saved his and Annabeth's lives by reminding Iapetus also known as Bob that Percy is a friend even though Percy didn't visit him and Nico was the one who actually visited him in Hades palace. When Percy found out, he felt low and dishonorable, unworthy of having a friend. He realized that he wouldn't of survived in Tartarus if not for Nico. Percy, when on the verge of death from Gorgon blood, admits that Nico is another friend that he had not treated fairly. While on his journey in Tartarus, Percy realized Nico was stronger than he gave him credit for.

As for Nico, Nico missed him a lot and his voice broke when he mentioned him as being the sea expert. The crew offered Nico Percy's cabin but Nico refused. Nico's crewmates were confused why he would do anything for Percy if they hated him so much, and couldn't imagine him being kind to him. The Argo II thought that Nico hated Percy, but it is revealed in Croatia that he actually had a crush on him, to Jason, who kept the secret from the others. Nico said he was over his crush, but he wasn't. Favonius also called Percy, though not by name, "The person Nico cared about most." When he rescued Percy and Annabeth from Tartarus, Nico accidentally held his hand for too long and let go. And Nico looked sad when he saw Percy and Annabeth holding hands. Percy was worried when Nico offered to transport the Athena Parthenos to Camp, but Nico angrily said that he'd changed since Tartarus. Later, Percy went to thank Nico for leading the crew to the House of Hades , and Nico said it was the least he could do after he saved him in Rome. Percy then told him about Tartarus and thanked him for helping Iapetus, and Nico said overlooking people can be dangerous. Percy then said he was trying to say thank you, and Nico told him to give him space, making Percy feel hurt. He was also confused as to who Nico was, as he wasn't a nerdy little kid or an angry loner anymore.

In The Blood of Olympus , Nico thought that Percy's humor was juvenile, and thought he acted so much younger than him, even though he was three years older than him. However, Nico found it endearing, but also annoying. Nico resented Percy for his feelings but knew he would do anything for him. When Nico found out that one of the seven may die, Percy was his third priority after Hazel and Jason. Nico was grateful for Percy for saving him in Rome and letting him onto the ship, and the thought of him or any of the seven dying made him feel like he was back in the bronze jar. When Nico saw Hades in Portugal , Hades hinted that he knows about Nico's little crush on him. Nico was surprised when Reyna and Coach Hedge accepted his crush on Percy, which likely encouraged him to come out to him after. After he returned to Camp, he was genuinely happy for Percy going to college in New Rome , and Percy was happy for Nico staying at Camp. Nico then confessed that he had a crush on Percy, but not anymore, since he isn't his type, but still cute. He said that Percy was a great person and he was happy for him and Annabeth. Percy was too shocked to speak, oblivious to his feelings.

In Camp Half-Blood Confidential , Percy and Nico are good friends. Percy, along with the rest of camp, supported Nico and knew about his relationship with Will Solace . At the campfire, Percy stared at Nico, stunned, when he sang and danced to a rendition of the hokey pokey. When Nico told the Camp about the orientation video, Percy told him to look at what he started. Nico asked if he should stop them, and Percy smiled and said no and said to get popcorn ready. Percy and Nico later did the FAQ, where they both got annoyed at Annabeth when she yelled at them, yelling her name in unison.

Chiron , his teacher and mentor.

Percy has a deep respect and love for his Centaur teacher Chiron, as he helped him as "Mr. Brunner" when he was still attending Yancy Academy and has helped him try to clear his name when he was blamed for being The Lightning Thief . Chiron in return shows a deep love for Percy as that of like a son, having almost raised Percy into a young man himself in a way of that a teacher would train and raise their student. Chiron became pained when Percy was missing in The Lost Hero .

Clarisse La Rue , his rival turned frenemy.

Clarisse and Percy have a rough relationship. Clarisse dislikes Percy at first for dousing her in toilet water when he first arrives at camp (even though she was trying to dunk his head in the toilet). She later learns that Percy beat her father, Ares , causing her and her cabin to dislike Percy even more. They manage to grow a bit closer in The Sea of Monsters when Percy manages to free her from Polyphemus (the two were even able to work well together) and sends her ahead with the Golden Fleece , a gesture she greatly appreciates.

During The Demigod Files , Percy helps Clarisse get her father's chariot back and has a vision of his friends in danger. When Clarisse asks if she was one of the people he saw, he says yes, but not to tell anyone. While the two can at least stand each other by the end of the original series, they do have great respect for the other.

Zoë Nightshade , his late friend and ally.

At first Zoë did not like Percy, but then she came to respect him after it was his plan that helped defeat the Nemean Lion , even giving Percy the pelt after the fight even though it was Zoe who finally killed the lion. During the quest, Percy learned more about Zoë's past while having dreams, learning that Hercules had betrayed her after she gave him Riptide . He realized why Zoë seemed to resent all heroes, but in the end, she told Percy that he was nothing like Hercules, and that she was wrong about men. Percy even comes to appreciate a lot of Zoë's good qualities as they spend more time together. Before Zoë's death at the hands of her father, she compliments Percy by saying that he is nothing like Hercules (who betrayed her), and deserved Riptide. After she died at the top of Mount Othrys , Artemis transformed her into a constellation named 'the Huntress' after her death by Artemis, as Zoë is part of the Hunt.

Charles Beckendorf , his trusted ally.

Not much of Percy and Charles's friendship is shown, but the two were good friends at Camp Half-Blood . Percy respected him because he was the only one who respected Tyson at first. Charles also tries to help Percy with his love life in The Demigod files, when he tells him that Annabeth likes him and to go invite her to the fireworks show. Percy helps rescue him in the same book from Myrmekes , when they capture him and drag him to Ant Hill. The two also help destroying Festus when he goes haywire. It is also heavily implied that Percy told Charles that he had a crush on Rachel.

In The Last Olympian , Percy is hanging out with Rachel Elizabeth Dare when Charles comes with Blackjack , telling him that the Princess Andromeda is here and that it is time to destroy it (the mission they've been planning for weeks). After Rachel kisses Percy, Charles picks up Percy and flies him to the ship on Blackjack, and tells him that he won't mention what Rachel did to Annabeth. The two land on the ship, and Charles is soon captured by Kronos . Percy mentions that when he sees Charles beaten up, his heart almost stopped. Percy was devastated by his death and blamed himself, but Nico di Angelo tells Percy that he spoke to his ghost in Elysium and Charles does not blame him.

Silena Beauregard , his friend.

Percy and Silena were friends at Camp Half-Blood , with Percy describing her as "One of the nicer Aphrodite girls" and very pretty. Silena also gave Percy his first Pegasus riding lesson. Silena winks at Percy in The Battle of the Labyrinth when Percy's cabin is spotless, thanks to Tyson . In The Demigod Files , Silena helps Percy rescue Charles Beckendorf when he is captured by Myrmekes , and she helps him find Festus .

Bianca di Angelo , a demigod he quested with.

Percy rescues Bianca from the Manticore in Maine during The Titan's Curse . Percy is originally mad at Bianca when she joins the Hunters of Artemis , but gets over it quickly. When he goes on the Quest for Artemis , he promises Nico that he would protect her.

During the quest, Bianca and Percy become close friends. Percy likes Bianca and thinks that she is cool, laid back, and easy to talk to. Bianca confides in Percy that she loves Nico, but wanted to know what it was like not being a big sister 24/7, and her feelings about her immortality and being a Hunter. Percy is the first person to realize that Bianca was in the Lotus Hotel and Casino , and he was the one who realized first that Bianca lost a lot of time. When the questers get to the Junkyard of the Gods , Bianca picks up the last figurine Nico needs, causing Talos to go haywire. Bianca gives Percy the figurine, telling him to give it to Nico and tell him that she's sorry, indicating that Bianca trusts Percy a great deal. Bianca crawls into Talos, destroying him, but also killing herself. Percy is very guilty for Bianca's death and blamed himself, thinking it should've been him instead.

Hazel, his good friend.

Percy and Hazel first met in The Son of Neptune , when Hazel saw Percy carrying Juno to Camp Jupiter . Hazel and Frank helped get Percy get across the Caldecott Tunnel to Camp. Hazel helped Percy once he made it and bragged about his deeds to Reyna, calling him brave and heroic. Hazel took Percy to Temple Hill and answered his questions about the Twelfth Legion Fulminata , telling him about legacies and how Camp Jupiter works. Hazel even showed him her favorite view of the city of New Rome . She also comforted Percy when he prayed to his father, Neptune , and put her hand on his back, saying he was one of them. Percy found it awkward but was glad she was there. Percy liked her but could sense she had a deep sadness inside of her: mature for her age, nice and easygoing, but hiding a big secret. He didn't believe she would have anything to be guiltily about and thought she was nice. As for Hazel, she was in awe of him. When she first saw him, she thought he was a god in disguise, with an aura of power, and ordered Frank not to fire on him, since she thought it was the gods testing her. But when she learned he was the son of Neptune, she hoped he would heal her curse. She could also sense he was more dangerous than Jason, Nico, Reyna, or Octavian.

Hazel ended up standing for Percy and letting him join the Fifth Cohort , which Nico was very proud of her for. Because she stood for Percy, if he did something wrong, Hazel would be killed along with him. They ate dinner together, and Percy told Hazel that they can turn things around for the Fifth Cohort , calling her his friend and giving him a little smile. As she got to know him, she realized he was smarter than he looked and learned not to underestimate him, even if he thought the questions he asked at first were silly. Percy later collaborated with Frank and Hazel for winning the war games. The next day, Percy decided to go on the quest with Hazel and Frank, even though he didn't like Mars , because he thought of them as nice dependable people who made a good team. During the Quest for Thanatos , Hazel and Percy bonded and Hazel told Percy about how she died, her biggest secret. Percy accepted her, to her surprise, telling her that she deserved to go to Elysium , and that she did the right thing by standing up to Gaea .

Percy eventually told Hazel his biggest secret one he found out: he was a Greek demigod from Camp Half-Blood . Percy said he felt that he was as close to Hazel as any of his old friends from Camp, and that since he trusted her, he hoped she would trust him. But to his surprise, Hazel kissed him on the cheek and smiled with sisterly affection, saying of course she trusted him, they were family. The kiss made Percy feel warm down to his feet. Percy felt lucky to have Frank and Hazel watching over him, and thought of them as the bright spots in his scary life after his memory loss. Hazel and Frank were the only things making Percy feel not alone, and promised that he wouldn't lose them. And when they made it to Alaska, Percy saved Hazel from Gaea and promised her that they would find Nico. The two later promised each other that they would make it back home, Percy would see Annabeth again, and Hazel make it back to Camp. Percy said that Hazel was too valuable to him and the camp and he wouldn't let anything happen to her. Percy reassured Hazel that there was more to her destiny than dying since that she was destined to fight Gaea with him, and her life was worth fighting for. Once they got back to Camp Jupiter, Percy was glad that Hazel was being treated well and as a savior of Rome, and knew that she deserved it. Percy knew Hazel wanted time alone with Frank and respected that, letting them walk around New Rome alone. The next day, Percy promised Hazel that he would find Nico as soon as they made it to Rome.

In The Mark of Athena , Percy was near Hazel when the Argo II arrived at Camp. Percy told Annabeth that Hazel was a good person, showing how close he was to her during a short amount of time. When Leo fired on Camp Jupiter by accident, Percy asked if Hazel was going to come with him to Rome, and Hazel said she would, and bought him some time so he could escape from the angry Romans. Percy was very protective of Hazel on the quest, and when she went off with Leo, Percy pulled Leo aside to tell him Hazel's story. While Percy told Leo this, he gave off an undertone that said "If you mess with (Hazel) I will personally feed you to a great white shark". In return, Hazel helped save Percy from Eidolons . Hazel was slightly scandalized by Percy when he was with Annabeth in the stables, not meeting his eyes, but it didn't affect their friendship. Percy couldn't stand seeing Hazel in pain during their voyage while missing Nico, and began to feel a responsibility for her, along with everyone else on the ship. Percy became very worried when Hazel went missing and scoured the entire seafloor to find her, Leo, and Frank. Hazel was supportive of his relationship with Annabeth, smiling when they kissed. After Percy began falling into Tartarus , Hazel realized and tried to cut the ropes, screaming for help and reaching out for him and Annabeth, to no avail.

In The House of Hades , she missed Percy very much. Percy was the demigod she admired most, and was grateful about the many times he saved her life in Alaska. She regarded Percy as one of the most important members of the crew, the backbone of the group. He gave her confidence while crossing the Atlantic and she wanted to make him and Annabeth proud, because she felt like she failed him. Hazel even trusted Hecate and decided to have the ship go the most dangerous route to Epirus just to ensure his survival. While meeting Sciron , she couldn't believe Percy was a son ph Poseidon , but realized he was like his father's good side, since he was gentle and helpful, like the kind of sea that takes ships safely to distant lands. Hazel sobbed when she saw Percy and Annabeth come out from the Doors of Death limp as corpses, and demanded that Clytius let them go, and could feel Percy's life force wane. Hazel was shocked when she saw Annabeth and Percy covered with black smoke and wanted nothing else but to save them from Pasiphaë and Clytius , which she did. When they returned to the ship, Percy demanded that Hazel stay with the Argo II because they needed her, and didn't want her to get lost in the labyrinth.

Reyna Ramírez-Arellano , his former co-praetor and friend.

Though Reyna and Percy first formally met in The Son of Neptune , they actually met in The Sea of Monsters on C.C.'s Spa and Resort , where after Annabeth and Percy freed the pirates, they took over the resort and kidnapped Reyna and her sister, Hylla Ramírez-Arellano . Reyna got over her grudge over time, but Hylla never did.

Percy and Reyna formally met when Percy carried Juno to Camp Jupiter . Reyna was wary of Percy and studied him carefully, giving Percy the idea that she wanted to run him through her dagger. Percy asked if he knew her and Reyna introduced herself, and said she didn't, but she could tell from her eyes that they have met before. Reyna decided to question him in the principia before bringing him to Octavian , and said he was either a new recruit or if he brought an enemy to kill. Percy was scared of Reyna and was even more scared of her greyhounds, Aurum and Argentum , but she reassured him that they won't attack. Percy told Reyna what he remembered and she believed him, except for the fact that he had no memory. But she slightly warmed up to Percy when she said that children of Neptune have a powerful smell, and Percy said that he had been told he smells, making Reyna crack a smile. Reyna decided to believe Percy was telling the truth after her dogs didn't eat him. Since Percy came from outside the camp, Hazel asked if he met their missing praetor Jason Grace. Hazel said the Romans were searching for Jason and have not given up after his disappearance. Reyna grimaced at Hazel's statement, which made Percy realize that Reyna considered Jason to be more than a colleague, and she had strong feelings for him. Reyna wished him luck in the auguries and suggested that they compare notes on his past.

Reyna welcomed Percy into the Fifth Cohort after his auguries were favorable, but looked at him with pity since he was in the worst cohort. Percy also sympathized for Reyna and could tell how much Octavian bugged her and tried to ruin things for her. After the senate meeting, Reyna wanted to talk to Percy in private. Reyna vented about how much she hated Octavian, Percy understood and Reyna said he was smarter than he looked. Reyna then asked Percy if he remembered her or Hylla, and when Percy said he didn't, and Reyna explained how he and Annabeth destroyed their home when she was young. Percy said he didn't remember and Reyna decided that he was sincere. Reyna believed the gods sent Percy to make up for the loss of Jason and save her home. Reyna spoke very highly of Jason, which made Percy ask if they were a couple. Reyna said they might've been and that if she were given more time with Jason, a romantic relationship would have formed. Reyna said she wants to work with a Praetor that is an honest warrior like Jason. Since Percy reminded Reyna of Jason, she offered him the praetorship. Reyna admitted that a son of Neptune wouldn't be her first choice, but she prefers Percy over Octavian (a schemer), Hazel, and Frank. Reyna tells Percy that she wants to work with him to save her camp. Reyna says that together, they can save the legion, close the doors of death, and defeat Gaea. Reyna tells Percy during this time; she would be a helpful friend. Percy realized she was asking him out and said that he had a girlfriend, and didn't want power, and Reyna inquired that it wasn't very Roman of him. Reyna confided in Percy about how Polybotes was marching towards camp and asked him to find Hylla to ask her to help them, which Percy agreed to. After their conversation ended, Percy noticed that Reyna was extremely desperate to save Camp Jupiter. Reyna knew that she couldn't do this alone and grasped at anything that could help the legion. Percy understood why Reyna would ask him for help after seeing visions of Polybotes' army. Percy apologized again before he left, and Reyna said that apologies weren't very Roman, and that she hoped he would consider her offer.

Percy ended up getting Hylla to help camp, and Reyna was overjoyed, and gave Percy a look that said "I could hug you right now". After Percy and Terminus defeated Polybotes, she chanted "Praetor! Praetor!" along with the rest of the camp and grasped Percy's hand, and held it up in congratulations. At the Feast of Fortuna, Reyna honored Percy and said that their destinies were made possible by Percy's deeds, then made him praetor, saying he earned his praetor's cloak. Reyna trusted Percy enough to believe him when he told her that he was a Greek demigod, Jason was coming back, and that the Greek gods were still around, and told the legion to trust him. When Percy told Reyna that Jason was returning, she hoped that was true. Reyna said she had missed Jason

But in The Mark of Athena , Reyna was slightly jealous of Annabeth when she arrived, mostly due to Reyna's "love curse" by Aphrodite. Reyna tells Annabeth that Percy spoke highly of her, which made Annabeth realize that she tried to make moves on Percy. Reyna didn't want Percy to show Annabeth around New Rome , and told him not to. Annabeth thought Reyna did this because Jason and Percy rejected her, but also suspected that Reyna knew about the Mark of Athena and wanted to speak to Annabeth privately.

In The House of Hades , Percy and Reyna met again in Epirus after Percy came back from Tartarus . Percy felt sorry for Reyna after she lost Scipio , and figured she had lost too much already. Percy was very impressed with Reyna for her deeds and couldn't help smiling and complimented her for it, saying she was being too modest and what she did was pretty heroic. Reyna complimented Percy in return, for going to Tartarus and back, but joked that without Annabeth, Percy wouldn't find his way out of a paper bag, making everyone laugh. In The Blood of Olympus , it is revealed that she felt insecure about Percy rejecting her, as told by Orion when he taunted her. By the end of the book, Reyna was over her brief crush on Percy, and told him and Annabeth that they can stay in New Rome when they finished high school as long as they'd and go to New Rome University .

Dakota , his centurion during his week at Camp Jupiter.

Percy and Dakota seem to be on good terms. When Percy meets Dakota, he noted that he looks like a vampire with his mouth stained red. Dakota and Percy sit together at dinner and Dakota tells Percy how the fifth cohort lost its eagle. The two also fight together when they play war games. When Percy retrieves the Eagle, he gives it to Dakota, and he uses it to lead the Fifth Cohort.

Leo Valdez , his good friend and ally.

Percy and Leo first meet in The Mark of Athena , but Percy saw images and visions of Leo during The Son of Neptune . They're not particularly close and haven't gotten to know each other well yet, as Percy was initially angry at him for shooting on Camp Jupiter. When Percy was mad at him, Leo was scared, as he recognized the look that reminded him of the times Jason summoned lightning. However, Percy later agreed that it wasn't him who did it, and it couldn't possibly have been him. Percy was also initially cautious around Leo, and when he went with Hazel Levesque to Utah, Percy had a talk with Leo and told her Hazel's story, but gave him a look that said "If you mess with my friend, I will personally feed you to a great white shark." But throughout their journey, Percy befriended Leo and felt a responsibility for everyone on the Argo II , including Leo. Leo also heard about Calypso from Percy, who told him that she was nice and awesome. And while Percy was in Rome, when he saw the Colliseum, it reminded him of Leo. Leo ended up saving Percy, Piper, and Jason from Otis and Ephialtes, but wasn't grateful, and was angry that he hadn't rescued Annabeth first. After Percy fell to Tartarus , Leo was wracked with guilt and felt like the fortune cookie that Nemesis gave him that saved Hazel and Frank had cost Percy and Annabeth. However, Leo was determined to save his friend.

In The House of Hades , Leo felt guilty about Percy and Annabeth and knew it was his fault, but knew that moping around wouldn't save him. However, after meeting Calypso, Leo felt a surge of anger towards Percy, and was mad at him for hurting Calypso. To make things worse, since Calypso clearly still had feelings for Percy, which made things ten times worse for Leo. Ultimately, however, Leo is the one to save Percy and Annabeth by flinging a screwdriver at the Doors of Death , managing to save them just in time. Leo was very happy when Percy survived Tartarus and whooped in happiness.

In The Blood of Olympus , he loved all his friends, including Percy, and would do anything for them. However, Leo had mixed feelings about Percy. He didn't know what his deal was with blue food. Leo felt awkward hanging out with Percy and didn't know how to make conversation with a survivor of Tartarus. Percy intimidated him before, but now he was even more intimidating after being in the pit. He had trouble thinking of him as from the same Camp, since they never were at Camp Half-Blood at the same time, and that Percy had four beads, and Leo had none. The only thing they had in common was Calypso, and that made him want to punch Percy in the face. Leo wanted to bring up the topic to Percy, but the timing never seemed right.

They finally got to hang out when they went to Olympia together to find and capture Nike , along with Hazel and Frank. Leo and Percy searched the museum together to try to find Nike. The two skipped stones, and when Percy caught the rock Leo skipped, Leo wanted to show off by blowing up a tour bus with fire. Percy became uncomfortable when Leo angrily stared at him, and after Leo apologized, Percy suggested that they should talk, and Leo agreed. But they began to bond when Percy made a joke about saying Adidas was the best to Nike, and Leo realized that they had another thing in common: their same stupid sense of humor. Leo and Percy also teamed up to defeat Nike. While fighting her, they finally discussed Calypso. Percy said if they didn't make it out, he wanted him to know that he felt bad about Calypso, and felt like he failed her. Percy said even though he lost his memory and went on the quest, he should have made sure the gods freed her. He said he was glad Leo found her and promised that he would do anything to help Leo after they make it out. Leo then asked what his problem was, and said he was just as bad as Jason: he couldn't resent him for being all hero-y. He wondered how he could hate him after he apologized and promised to help. Percy smiled and apologized. Leo finally had no resentment towards Percy, and his anger began to unravel, now that he knew he had no feelings towards Calypso. He just couldn't dislike him after he apologized and acted all nice and sincere.

After that, Percy and Leo were friends with no problems and they defeated Nike with the help of Frank and Hazel. Leo became sarcastic and joking with Percy, calling him "Water Boy", which he told him not to call him, then calling him "Aquaman", which he hated more. Leo was also miffed and asked him why he had to destroy the plumbing when he did. Percy also joked that if a statue engulfed people in fire, he should send Leo, and Leo jokingly said he loved him too. Leo was also grateful when Percy got everyone in the crew, including him, gelato, and said that it made his whole day better. Leo also joked about how Percy's zodiac sign was Leo's name. However, Leo kept his suicidal plan to sacrifice himself from Percy. Percy was devastated when Leo died, and was initially angry at Hazel and Frank, but his anger subsided when they cried and agreed that it was a plan Leo would've done. Percy was hopeful that Leo was alive and said that if he lives, they can take turns strangling him.

In Wrath of the Triple Goddess , Percy thinks of Leo fondly several times and even has a celestial bronze dog whistle from his friend that Percy can use to call Mrs. O'Leary with. He also states that Leo had been tutoring him for his Spanish courses. This may imply Percy knew Leo was still alive and they've likely been communicating via Iris Messages during Leo's travels.

Piper McLean , his good friend and ally.

Piper heard about Percy in The Lost Hero , and they met formally at Camp Jupiter in The Mark of Athena . Their first formal exchange was when Percy made a joke about "dam", and Piper didn't understand it, and Percy said it was an inside joke. They formally got to know each other the next day when Percy smiled at her to greet her, which she was surprised by. She was happy to see Percy with Annabeth since Annabeth felt truly happy being with him for the first time in months. She thought they were so easy together that it made her heart ache. However, Piper thought that Percy was unimpressive compared to Jason, and thought it was underwhelming seeing him after hearing so much about him for months. He wasn't Piper's type and thought he looked like a skater boy, a troublemaker, and if she saw him at a mall she would steer clear of him. But Piper could see why Annabeth liked him and knew why he needed her in his life, and thought if anyone could control a guy like that, she could. They cooperated well in Kansas and Piper was impressed when he summoned Blackjack , and she saved him twice from Eidolons . Piper was worried that Percy wouldn't trust her for knocking him out twice, but Jason reassured her that Percy wouldn't hate anybody. Piper was also relieved the next day when Percy and Annabeth came back from kissing in the stables.

As for Percy, he trusted Piper and felt responsible for everyone on the ship, including Piper. In Rome, Piper comforted Percy when Annabeth went off on her own and reassured him that Annabeth would be fine, putting Charmspeak in her voice. Piper also saved Percy's life from being drowned by Hagno . In return, Percy saved Piper from Otis and Ephialtes . Percy also asked how Piper's arm was after the battle, and Piper said it wad good and that he and Jason did great in the battle. Piper was upset when Percy fell to Tartarus , but she knew it wasn't her fault.

In The Blood of Olympus , Piper and Percy were friends and Percy was worried when she wanted to fight Mimas with Annabeth alone. However, Piper was afraid of the son of Poseidon . Piper knew that Percy had bad spirits inside him and after he exploded the toilets without trying, she wanted to leave the ship as soon as possible and wondered what he would like if he tried to act scary on purpose. Piper secretly felt uneasy when Annabeth told him how he tried to choke Akhlys with her own poison. However, they were still good friends and Percy got everyone, including Piper, gelato in Delos . Percy, Piper, and Annabeth headed to the Parthenon together to defeat the Gigantes , and Piper encouraged Percy to talk about his family. Percy also gave Piper water to heal her dry throat. When they made it to the Parthenon, Percy and Annabeth kissed passionately and though Piper felt awkward, she thought his relationship with Annabeth was the perfect example of love. Percy apologized, and Piper grinned and said he was a great boyfriend, approving of his relationship with Annabeth. Piper was very worried when Percy got a nosebleed and the blood of Olympus spilled.

Gleeson Hedge , his chaperone and mentor.

Percy and Coach Hedge met in The Mark of Athena , and he became Percy's chaperone. Percy thought it was hard to take Hedge seriously because he was only five feet tall. When Coach Hedge found out that Percy and Annabeth were kissing in the stables, Coach Hedge was furious with him and swinged his bat, knocking over a plate of apples. Percy told him he was starting to sound like Terminus , and Hedge became even more angry, saying he will terminate him. Percy tried not to laugh and promised it wouldn't happen again, and Coach Hedge said that he will be watching him. After that incident, Hedge didn't trust Percy and Annabeth to go anywhere alone together and decided to go with Percy and Frank Zhang to Atlanta to keep an eye on him, which Percy was not thrilled about. While in the museum, Coach Hedge ended up saving Percy and Frank from Phorcys and Keto . Hedge freaked out when he and Frank were trapped in a tank and was relieved when they escaped. Percy was grateful that Coach Hedge rescued him and was happy to have a chaperone good at martial arts cage matches.

After that, Percy seemed to trust Coach Hedge more and was fine being alone on a ship with him. Coach Hedge was very impressed by Percy and seemed to forget about his stable incident with Annabeth. He also heard Coach Hedge sing a lot of TV theme songs. Percy also saved Coach Hedge's life from Chrysaor . When they arrived in Rome, Coach Hedge warned Percy that he didn't like the idea of him and Annabeth going off on their own, and that if he heard any funny business, he would ground them until the River Styx freezes over, showing how protective he was towards him. Percy promised Hedge that he would be back soon. And later, when Percy left to find Nico di Angelo with Jason and Piper, Coach Hedge told them to not take too long, or he would blast them with a ballistae. Percy and Hedge later collaborated to help save Annabeth.

After Percy fell to Tartarus , Coach Hedge was devastated and paced back and forth, tugging his beard, and slapped his head, saying he should've helped them and blown up more stuff. He had tears in his eyes.

Juniper , Grover's girlfriend.

Percy first meets Juniper in The Battle of the Labyrinth . He is surprised to learn she is Grover's girlfriend as he never mentioned it to him before. Both Percy and Juniper share their concern for Grover when he's in hot water with the Council of Cloven Elders and will lose his Searcher's License.

Juniper warns Percy that Luke used to investigate the forest near Zeus' Fist , and then later caught Quintus , the new swordsman instructor, exploring the forest, searching for an entrance to the Labyrinth . Juniper vouches for Percy and Grover while testifying against the Council that Pan is dead.

In The Last Olympian , Percy runs into Juniper arguing with Leneus when Grover goes missing for two months. After seeing Juniper in tears after Leneus refuses to search for Grover and believes he's dead, Percy, infuriated, scares the old satyr into looking for Grover and gathering an army against Kronos . Juniper apologizes for getting Percy involved, but he doesn't mind and assures her Grover is okay, thanks to their Empathy Link .

In The Chalice of the Gods , Percy gives Grover advice on his relationship with Juniper and helps his best friend to understand what he's doing that's making Juniper so upset.

Companions [ ]

Blackjack , Percy's pegasus.

Blackjack is Percy's pegasus and his loyal friend. While on the Princess Andromeda in The Sea of Monsters , Blackjack was captured and was planned on being recruited into the Titan Army , until Percy set him free. After that, Blackjack became Percy's personal steed and came whenever Percy needed him. Additionally, Blackjack will come whenever any sea creature needs Percy's help, normally in the middle of the night, much to Percy's annoyance.

Mrs. O'Leary , Percy's dog.

Mrs. O'Leary is Percy's pet hellhound , whom he received from Daedalus before he died in The Battle of the Labyrinth . Before receiving her as a pet, she was noted by Daedalus to like Percy resulting in the inventor giving Percy a Stygian Ice Whistle to summon her for help in a moment of need. Despite being rather large, even by hellhound standards, Mrs. O'Leary is incredibly friendly toward Percy, licking him anytime they meet. Mrs. O'Leary normally aids Percy and his friends in battles by attacking enemy monsters. In fact, just Mrs. O'Leary's bark and size are enough to frighten other monsters.

Percy is very protective of Mrs. O'Leary. When Percy was in the Underworld with Nico and Mrs. O'Leary, he called her off when Nico betrayed him because he didn't want his dog being hurt by the Furies . Despite Mrs. O'Leary being angry with the order, she still obeyed. Mrs. O'Leary and Tyson search for Percy together after he goes missing, eventually finding him at Camp Jupiter and helping fight back the Giant Army .

Family [ ]

Sally Jackson , his mother.

Percy loves his mother dearly. He always wishes to make her happy and would do anything to keep her safe. He is very mindful of her safety, even considering to sacrifice himself for her once. He left the moonlace from Calypso 's Island, Ogygia , under her care. Despite Percy always looking for his mother's permission and approval as he gets older, Sally realizes that Percy is getting too old to always listen to her and tells him to do what he thinks is right.

In The Son of Neptune , after failing to communicate with Annabeth, Percy leaves his mother a phone message letting her know he is safe.

While embarking on quests for recommendation letters to get into New Rome University , Percy often turns to his mother for advise and guidance, which she's happy to give. Percy becomes excited to learn that Sally is pregnant and promises to visit her as much as he can once he's in college.

Poseidon , his father.

Percy has a complicated relationship with his father. An important memory for Percy before he knew he was a demigod was of Poseidon visiting Percy when he was a baby in his cradle in a warm glow and a warm smile. He initially resented his father as he felt he had abandoned him and his mother. He let go of this when he learned his father cared for him and his mother.

Though he has met with his father only occasionally, Percy cares much for Poseidon's approval and developed a strong pride for him, though he recognizes when Poseidon does something stupid or horrible.

Despite caring for his father, Calypso makes Percy wonder if he only fights for the Olympians because Poseidon is his father.

Percy with Tyson , his paternal half-brother.

Percy first met Tyson when they were attending the same school together, Percy was his friend and stood up for him against bullies. Percy couldn't believe they were related when Poseidon first claimed him and was kind of ashamed to have a monster for a brother, thinking that his father was trying to make fun of him. Despite this, he still got angry with Annabeth when she called Tyson a monster, stating that he wasn't a bad person. His resentment and embarrassment disappears after Percy thinks Tyson died when the CSS Birmingham exploded (with Tyson in the engine room). He feels regret for how badly he treated Tyson before and wishes he could take it back. Tyson revealed that he had prayed to Poseidon for a friend, and he had sent him Percy.

When Tyson turns out to be alive, Percy fully accepts him as his brother. He and Tyson have gone on many adventures together and contact each other even when they are apart. Tyson make and fixes his half-brother wristwatch that transforms into a shield for Percy. The shield is decorated with images of their adventures engraved upon it, but it was later lost in the Labyrinth much to Percy's anger.

Percy greatly loves his maternal half-sister and volunteers to babysit her. Before she was born, he tells Apollo that one of the reasons he cannot go on a quest with him is because he wants to get to know her.

Paul Blofis , his second step-father.

Percy was at first wary of Sally's new boyfriend, Paul Blofis , but eventually warms up to him. Percy is very happy to have Paul as his stepfather when his mother gets married to him. During the Battle of Manhattan, Percy showed just as much concern for Paul when he found him under Hecate's spell, showing how he has come to see Paul as family in such a short period of time.

In The Tower of Nero , Paul expresses his pride in Percy and his accomplishments to Apollo .

In The Chalice of the Gods , Paul helps Percy get into Alternative High School when he's kicked out of Goode High School for missing his entire junior year after Hera kidnapped him. It's mentioned that Paul had thought that it would be a good fit for Percy because of its Olympic-sized swimming pool and swim team . Paul later helps Percy to craft his first recommendation letter for New Rome University .

Gabe Ugliano , his former stepfather and abuser.

Percy hated his first stepfather, who often bullied him and abused his mother, even describing him as "the loosest definition of a human being". When he was young, he called his stepfather "Smelly Gabe" because he smelled like old garlic pizza wrapped in sweaty gym shorts due to his habits of smoking cigars and lacking proper hygiene. Percy eventually learns that the reason Sally married Gabe in the first place was to mask his demigod scent from monsters. Sally uses Medusa's Head given to her by Percy to turn Gabe into a statue and sells him to gain a better apartment.

Frank Zhang , his friend and distant relative.

Amphitrite , his stepmother.

Percy's relationship with his half-sister started very badly because Kymopoleia in her first appearance worked for Gaia and tried to sink the Argo II. She also accompanied Polybotes who tried to kill Percy to avenge his previous defeat and she did not try to prevent it.

However, Percy felt sympathy for her when he found out that she lived away from her parents because they found her presence disturbing as well as being forgotten, and for her part, Kymoleia felt jealous of Percy because of how famous he had become in a short time and was also upset with him because Percy didn't know who she was.

Rivals [ ]

Luke Castellan , his rival.

At the beginning of the series in The Lightning Thief , Percy thought that Luke was a cool guy and thought that they would become close friends when he came to Camp Half-Blood . Luke helped train Percy in sword fighting and gave him moral support as a new comer, but at the end of the book it is shown to him that Luke was the real Lightning Thief, who summons a pit scorpion to kill Percy before he leaves, telling Percy of his bitterness towards the Olympian gods and his desire for revenge, hence the line of the prophecy in the first Percy Jackson book, "You shall be betrayed by one who calls you a friend."

In The Sea of Monsters , Percy and Luke fight aboard the Princess Andromeda and it is shown that while Percy was at first confident in his abillity to beat Luke in a duel, he was actually terrified at the prospect of combating Luke in swordplay as he recognised how skilled Luke is. Percy has him reveal that he was the one who poisoned Thalia's Pine Tree to the entire Camp Half-Blood. When Luke was supposedly killed in The Titan's Curse , despite at first showing evident horror at Luke's terrific death, Percy is told by his father that Luke was not dead and that he was alive causing him to become angry and filled with more hate towards Luke. During The Battle of the Labyrinth , Percy witnesses Luke become taken over by Kronos and before that he was thrown into a fight against a giant by him. Furthermore, Percy showed signs of jealousy toward Luke because of Annabeth's affection toward Luke (and Percy's growing feelings for Annabeth at the time).

When they go into Battle of Manhattan just after Luke kills Kronos, he angrily tells Percy with pleading eyes that he didn't want the same thing to happen to the other unclaimed demigods wind up like him and Percy promised Luke that he won't let it happen again and Luke nodded before dying, showing that despite Percy and Luke's mutual hatred for each other, after Luke killed Kronos, their enmity towards each other has toned down. Percy honors that promise to him by saying that as his wish that all the children of all the gods will be recognized and cared about, implying that he still had respect for Luke.

During The Mark of Athena , Percy starts remembering how angry Luke was with the Olympian gods and how himself felt like that before. Then after seeing Bacchus just watch himself and Jason fighting for their lives against Otis and Ephialtes, he understood why. Because of this, he could understand Luke better.

Octavian , a former centurion of the first cohort, former augur, and Percy's political rival at Camp Jupiter.

When they first met, Octavian was suspicious about Percy, thinking that he's a spy for the Gigantes as he was a Greek. At the end of the book, Octavian disliked Percy because he stole his chances of being praetor . He also accused Percy of leading the Greeks to attack Camp Jupiter (which was actually an accident because Leo was possessed by an eidolons ).

Gods and Goddesses [ ]

Zeus , the king of the olympians and his uncle.

Zeus has mixed feelings for his nephew. He was upset over his birth because it violated the pact that he, Poseidon, and Hades made after World War II to not bear any more children, even as he himself did no better by conceiving Thalia and Jason. Zeus is nevertheless thankful for the demigod's past services to both himself and Olympus as a whole. During the Winter Solstice council meeting in The Titan's Curse , he voted to let him live even when it was no longer tied to the fate of Thalia. He was later angered by his nephew when he refused his offer of godhood because it seemed like being a mortal was somehow better than being a god.

However, Zeus once warned Percy that he will strike him down if he ever travels in the sky. Though it is never brought up again by his uncle, Percy is very mindful of traveling by land or sea; barring riding on pegasi (which his father created from seafoam) like Blackjack. However, it seems that in extreme situations, Percy is allowed to fly such as when he is carried by the Angel Statues at Hoover Dam , and traveling by plane in The Son of Neptune .

Hades , lord of the Underworld and his uncle

Like Zeus, Hades has a mixed relationship with his nephew due to his natural dislike of heroes and disapproved of Percy's existence due to Poseidon breaking the oath. He once believed Percy had stolen his Helm of Darkness and tried to kill him until Percy later proved his innocence and returned the helm which the god repaid by returning his mother whom he had kidnapped. In The Last Olympian , Hades had Percy imprisoned Percy in his dungeon to ensure Nico became the child of the Great Prophecy until Nico released him, to Hades' anger.

Hades was later convinced by his son to aid Percy in the war and played an indirect role in his wish for general acceptance through earlier advice to Nico about getting a "solemn oath." Given that Percy is directly responsible for his position on the council with full privileges and rights, it would be fair to say that Hades has an improved opinion about him.

Ares , the god of war and his enemy.

Athena , the goddess of wisdom and his girlfriend's mother.

Athena is on neutral, if somewhat unfriendly, terms with Percy. She disapproves of his relationship with her daughter both because of his fatal flaw and he is the son of her rival. 
In The Titan's Curse , Athena guided him at the Hoover Dam in order to save Annabeth though she later suggested it wiser that he be destroyed at the Winter Solstice meeting. In The Last Olympian , Athena had Hermes send a message to Percy and Annabeth, advising how to best prepare for the invasion but also used the opportunity to remind Percy of her displeasure about his relationship with her daughter. Despite her disapproval of him, it was Athena who convinced the other Olympians to honor his request for recognition, though she later confronted him about his decision to decline godhood. He admitted Annabeth was the main reason, much to her annoyance.

Hermes , the messenger god and an ally.

Percy is on good terms with Hermes, who convinced him to go on a quest in The Sea of Monsters and gave him magic items to assist him in his journey. He explained the relationship between gods and heroes to him.

Their relationship soured after realizing that Percy could not save Luke Castellan . After the war, their relationship was mended upon Percy's counseling and sympathy for Hermes' feelings of powerlessness for Luke's fate. Hermes trusted Percy enough to seek him out for help in retrieving his stolen Caduceus , and repaid Percy's favor by treating him and Annabeth to a magically arranged dinner in Paris for their one-month anniversary.

Artemis , goddess of the hunt and an ally.

Apollo , the god of the sun and a general ally.

Apollo tends to side with Percy and can see the good he does. While Percy goes on a quest to try and save Apollo's sister Artemis in The Titan's Curse , he helped Percy directly which goes against the ancient laws of gods, but put his faith in Percy that he would be able to save her. Later during the Olympus party, Apollo thanks Percy for saving Artemis, even offering free archery lessons, to which he declines.

In The Hidden Oracle , Apollo thinks very highly of Percy, implying that he would rather have him for his master than Meg. The first thing Apollo did after he lost his godhood was to immediately go to Percy's place for help. Apollo brags to Meg about how he taught Percy and is disappointed by the latter's lack of admiration. Nevertheless, Apollo tries to persuade Percy to help him with the quest, but Percy flatly refuses. Percy however agrees to help Apollo in small ways and takes him and Meg to Camp Half Blood. After saving Camp Half Blood from Nero's attack, Apollo goes into despair, but Percy gives him a pep talk on being a hero.

Dionysus , the god of wine and Percy's camp director.

Both Dionysus and Percy share a mutual dislike of each other. Dionysus detests all heroes in general (despite once being a hero himself) due to Theseus ' treatment of his wife Ariadne, while Percy resents his antagonistic attitude towards him and the rest of the campers. On the other hand, Dionysus did once save Percy's life during his quest to save Annabeth and correctly says Percy's name (something he rarely does for any camper besides his children) in a conversation they had after he saved Percy on said quest.

Hephaestus , god of the forge

Hera , queen of the Olympians and his aunt.

Hera neither likes nor dislikes Percy. Both Percy and Annabeth disagree with her views about family, siding with her son Hephaestus even though Hera helped them several times in The Battle of the Labyrinth . Percy is close friends with Thalia, one of Zeus's illegitimate children whom Hera naturally despises. In addition, Percy is the love interest of Annabeth whom Hera cursed for offending her. Despite this, Hera makes Ares write a thank you letter to Poseidon for saving Olympus The Last Olympian , hinting that she felt grateful.

In The Son of Neptune , Hera sent Percy to Camp Jupiter , have erased most of his memory to her nephew's great indignation. She commented she considers Percy "a loose cannon" and "impulsive", but also "unswervingly loyal" and "the glue that will unite the seven". Percy mentions he understands her motives, but still is displeased having lost 8 months of his life as a result.

Aphrodite , the goddess of love.

Aphrodite "favors" Percy, having expressed an interest in his relationship with Annabeth Chase. She told that Percy that she planned to meddle with his love life, intending to make it a "nice tragic love story". It was Aphrodite who arranged for Percy to meet Rachel and later Calypso , causing him to be confused about his feelings for Annabeth. Aphrodite was one of the gods who voted not to kill Percy at the winter solstice. At the end of The Last Olympian , she was one of the gods who voted in favor of Percy being granted godhood.

Persephone , queen of the underworld.

Hestia , goddess of the hearth and his aunt.

Aside from his father, Hestia is possibly Percy's best relationship with a god. Percy actually first saw Hestia his first day at camp but thought she was an eight-year-old girl.

Iris , the goddess of the rainbow and his mutual ally.

Percy first meets Iris in The Son of Neptune when he, along with Hazel and Frank, encounter her at her shop, Rainbow Organic Foods & Lifestyles in Portland. Recognizing Percy is suffering from memory sickness and magical exhaustion, Iris has her cloud nymph assistant, Fleecy, give Percy tea with organic honey and wheat germ to help him recover. Iris also offers to help him in exchange for them handling a delicate situation regarding her sisters, the harpies, and specifically asks them to seek help from Phineas , but not kill the harpies.

Ganymede , the cupbearer of the gods who tasked Percy with finding his chalice.

At first, Percy saw Ganymede as a source for one of his recommendation letters to get into New Rome University . However, after going on the quest, the Son of Poseidon grew to understand the hardships Ganymede had to face for his position and the suffering he experienced from his abduction.

Geras the god of old age who Percy embraces.

Hecate , the goddess of magic who tasked Percy to petsit.

Initially, Percy is only peripherally aware of the goddess of magic because of her roles in the Second Titan War and the Second Giant War , never actually meeting her in person before Wrath of the Triple Goddess . After learning that the goddess had kept him from getting two easy quests for his remaining recommendation letters, Percy is greatly frustrated, but he agrees to help Hecate anyways.

Enemies [ ]

Kronos , the king of the titans and his grandfather.

Kronos is the first true leader of enemy forces Percy has faced and fought against, having spent years fighting the Titan of time from the age of twelve to his sixteenth birthday. Being the father of the Big Three gods, Kronos is Percy's grandfather. However, Percy thought that the concept was too strange, so he dismissed it completely.

The son of Poseidon saw Kronos as a true threat to Western Civilization as did the rest of the camp, even compared to the cruelty of the gods. He probably hated in a personal level, as he often used his beloved ones as traps.

Hyperion , the titan of light who he fought against.

Prometheus , who gifted humans with fire.

Gaea , protogenos of the earth and his great-grandmother.

Polybotes , the bane of his father.

Percy and the giant Polybotes have a large amounts of dislike for each other, as Polybotes is the Bane of Poseidon/Neptune and has attempted to capture, torture, and eventually kill Percy. According to Polybotes, Percy's blood will bring back the Earth Mother , but before that he wants to torture Percy and keep him as a pet until the time is right.

Alcyoneus , the bane of Hades/Pluto.

Others [ ]

Iapetus , his enemy turned ally.

Bob the Titan, originally Iapetus, became an ally in The Demigod Files , while he is fighting Percy, Percy tricks him into splashing into the River Lethe , wiping his memory clean. Because of this, he is the only Titan that is on the good side with Percy and emerges believing he is a man named Bob and his friend is Percy.

He rescued Annabeth and Percy in Tartarus about a year and a half later and stayed behind at the Doors of Death to sacrifice himself so that Percy and Annabeth could escape.

However, he is presumed dead after fighting the embodiment of Tartarus and ensuring Percy and Annabeth reach the mortal world safely in The House of Hades . His last words to Percy and Annabeth were, "Tell the sun and the stars hello for me."

The son of Poseidon would feel guilty for not visiting.

Magnus Chase , Annabeth's cousin and his trainee.

At Annabeth's request, the son of Poseidon helped train the son of Frey for his voyage to Scandinavia and the Quest to stop Naglfar from Sailing . His training methods involved Magnus jumping off the highest point of a ship to prepare him for an attack on his ship.

Carter Kane , the most recent pharaoh of the House of Life and his ally.

At first, Carter and Percy got off on the wrong foot with the son of Poseidon, who was unaware that Carter was mixed-race and thinking he was a demigod, called him a half-blood. This prompted Carter to unintentionally attack him and they had a brief fight before agreeing to team up to stop Petsuchos .

The magician and son of Poseidon worked well in the fight , the giant crocodile and disarm it of the necklace making it the size of a bus, reverted it to the former of a baby crocodile. As the two have burgers afterward and tell the other about their respective pantheons and see each other as close allies. Carter gives him a direct line to himself to be used only in emergencies.

Sadie Kane , his ally during the Battle of Governors Island .

When the son of Poseidon called her brother for help, she came to Governors Island with Carter and dropped a camel on Setne to save him and Annabeth. When he and Sadie expressed a desire for a frontline assault on Setne, Carter and the daughter of Athena convinced them to form a plan first, showing their similarities in combat.

As they walk, he feels that Sadie is like a future daughter of himself and Annabeth, with the daughter of Athena's looks and the son of Poseidon's personality.

Eudora , Percy's guidance counselor.

Percy is friendly with Eudora, however he is annoyed by her lack of clarity when explaining his tasks to get into New Rome University , such as failing to explain that he could take on multiple questions at once if he puts in the right paperwork. However, he sees her as a confidant.

Video Game [ ]

Percy Jackson in the video game.

Percy is the main protagonist of the video game, and is the only party member who cannot be replaced. His attacks are mostly Water based. He also has a few Physical attacks and one Poison attack. Percy is resistant to Water but is vulnerable to Poison. The table below contains all the moves Percy can learn throughout the game.

Etymology [ ]

Trivia [ ]

Gallery [ ]

References [ ]