This article is about the character. You may be looking for the character from the TV series or character from the films .

Poseidon

Biographical information

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Poseidon is the Greek god of the sea, storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods and horses. He is the son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea , as well as one of the Big Three . His Roman counterpart is Neptune . He is also the patron god of Corinth and his cabin in Camp Half-Blood .

Contents

History [ ]

Birth and Rescue [ ]

Poseidon was the second male and fifth child of Kronos , the Titan King of Mount Othrys , and his sister-wife Rhea , born after his sisters Hestia , Demeter , and Hera , and his elder brother Hades . Since Poseidon was a god (a member of a more beautiful and powerful race of immortals than the Titans ), Kronos, fearing that Poseidon would one day overpower him, quickly proceeded to swallow him whole as well. Poseidon, thus, spent his childhood undigested in his father's stomach along with his sisters, and elder brother. As a result, Kronos became known as "King Cannibal." Rhea pleaded with Kronos to spare their children but with no success, since even Kronos' great love for Rhea was not enough to overpower his selfish and evil nature. However, Rhea soon gave birth to her final child, Zeus, who she secretly raised on Crete, far away from Mount Othrys .

After growing up, Zeus successfully infiltrated Kronos ' Palace on Mount Othrys as the Titan King's royal cup bearer. Poseidon was finally released by Zeus during the final drinking competition that Kronos had with his Titanic brothers and nephews. Zeus poured an extremely powerful emetic (made from nectar mixed with mustard) into Kronos' goblet, which caused the Titan King to gorge all of the contents of his stomach, in reverse order of swallowing: first the boulder, then Poseidon, followed by Hades , Hera , Demeter , and Hestia . All of them had been growing undigested in Kronos's stomach, being gods. He also used powerful knockout potions on the rest of the titans so that they would not wake up before the gods could escape.

Zeus quickly introduced himself to his elder siblings, and all of them (including Poseidon) promptly escaped Mount Othrys , before their Titanic uncles and cousins came to their senses. In Zeus' Cave, at the base of Mount Ida, Poseidon happily reunited with his beloved mother Rhea , who tearfully embraced him. Shortly thereafter, Poseidon and the other gods accepted Zeus as their leader, and reached a unanimous consensus on declaring war against their tyrannical father. However, since the Titans were well-armed, and the gods still had no weapons or experience, Poseidon agreed to help Zeus release their Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheire uncles from Tartarus first.

Rescuing the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires [ ]

Poseidon's elder brother Hades , who was very skilled in navigating under the earth, was able to lead them all into Tartarus (through a network of Underworld tunnels). There, imprisoned in the maximum-security zone, surrounded by huge bronze walls, and a lava moat, guarded by fierce demons, were the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires . Their guardian, Kampê , was the most ferocious and fearsome monster in all of Tartarus, and even Poseidon, Hades , and Zeus initially shuddered with horror when they saw the infernal monster for the first time. However, the gods overcame their fear, and were able to sneak in. Zeus managed to talk to the Cyclopes , Brontes, and convinced him to forge powerful weapons for him and his siblings behind Kampê's back. The three Elder Cyclopes forged three incredibly powerful weapons: the Master Bolt (for Zeus), the Trident (for Poseidon), and the Helm of Darkness (for Hades). With these new weapons, Zeus destroyed Kampê, and Poseidon shattered the chains of the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires, releasing them. Afterwards, Hades safely guided his siblings and uncles back out of Tartarus. In return, for their release, all six of Poseidon's uncles agreed to fight on his side in the upcoming war with the Titans.

The First Titanomachy [ ]

Shortly after their return from Tartarus, Poseidon and his siblings officially declared war on Kronos and the other Titans, which resulted in the terrifying 10-year-long Titanomachy. The Titans initially had the upper hand, since they were much more experienced warriors while the gods had very little experience fighting. However, as the years of the War passed, the gods quickly became skilled warriors as well, and with the help of their new extremely powerful weapons, as well as the aid of the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires, the gods finally prevailed. Poseidon himself proved to be a very dangerous and ferocious warrior, and greatly contributed to the ultimate downfall of Kronos and his Titanic followers.

While preparing for the final battle of the War, Poseidon and his siblings ascended to Mount Olympus (the tallest mountain in Greece after Mount Othrys). During the final battle, Zeus used his Master Bolt to shear off the top of Mount Othrys , and hurl Kronos from his Black Throne, defeating the Titan King. Shortly thereafter, the gods invaded the ruins of Mount Othrys, and finally overwhelmed Atlas , Hyperion , Iapetus , Krios , and Koios .

In the aftermath of the battle, the Elder Cyclopes chained up all of the defeated Titans, while the Hekatonkheires forced them to kneel before Poseidon, Zeus , and Hades . Zeus took his father's scythe, and sliced Kronos into a thousand pieces, before casting him into Tartarus, along with the rest of his followers (except for General Atlas , who was forced to hold the Sky).

Gaining the Oceans and Seas [ ]

The gods chose Mount Olympus as their official residence, and the Elder Cyclopes built magnificent palaces there for them all. As a result, the gods started to call themselves the Olympians . Shortly thereafter, Poseidon had a private meeting with his brothers Hades and Zeus , and the three brothers agreed to divide the world between themselves. Although it was Hades' birthright (as Kronos ' eldest son) to be named his father's successor, he agreed to divide the Titan King's former domain with his brothers. Hades received the Underworld , Poseidon seized the seas, and Zeus claimed the heavens as his domain. Shortly after this division, the three mighty sons of Kronos came to be known as " the Big Three ." However, Zeus' authority was still recognized as superior to that of his brothers, due to him releasing them from Kronos, and he therefore became the King of Mount Olympus as well as the Olympians .

Even then, it was evident that there was tension between Poseidon and Zeus, for though the former tried to follow the latter's orders, he still found the latter to be a constant annoyance. All the other gods were also extremely wary whenever Poseidon (the sea) and Zeus (the sky) started arguing, for a fight between them could be catastrophic to the world. Hence, shortly after the new generation of gods established their respective domains, Rhea suggested that Poseidon take his leave of Olympus to explore his new domain of the seas, sending him to live with the Telekhines .

Hence, Poseidon spent much time with the Telekhines, who educated him not only in the ways of the ocean, but also to achieve a higher level of skill over his Trident. After he had learned all that he could from them, Poseidon decided to build his own palace, and soon had the Elder Cyclopes construct Atlantis (his official underwater residence) for him at the bottom of the Aegean Sea. Oceanus, the Titan of the sea, not wishing to seek a fight, moved to more deeper parts of the ocean.

Marriage to Amphitrite [ ]

Amphitrite , his wife and Queen of the sea.

Early in his reign, Poseidon began searching for a wife. His attention soon turned to the most beautiful Nereid , Amphitrite , but she rejected his proposal and fled. As a result, Poseidon became extremely depressed, and pointlessly wandered about his palace, bellowing "louder than a humpback whale", giving many whales and giant squids terrible migraines.

Fortunately for him, Delphin , the dolphin god and Poseidon's lieutenant, was sent in pursuit and managed to persuade the goddess into reconsidering the offer. Overjoyed, after his grandiose wedding, Poseidon gratefully awarded his lieutenant by creating a constellation in his honor. He would father four children by Amphitrite, including a son named Triton . Like Zeus, Poseidon also went on to sire children by various goddesses and mortal women. His most famous demigod children of all are Theseus and Bellerophon. Neither Amphitrite nor Persephone acted with hostility toward their respective husbands' children when they were showed infidelity (unlike Hera).

Relationship with Demeter [ ]

A couple of years after Persephone's birth, Demeter had decided to take a walk on the beach, and was noticed by her brother Poseidon. The god of the seas appeared before her, wearing magnificent flowing green robes, and a crown of shining seashells. Demeter was frightened, and transformed herself into a white mare, and attempted to hide herself among a nearby herd of wild horses. Poseidon, however, being "The Father of Horses", quickly transformed into a mighty white stallion himself, and galloped after her. He quickly caught up with the herd, and made the horses part before him and surround Demeter, after which he successfully seized her. Shortly thereafter, Demeter gave birth to twins: Despoina (a goddess), and Arion (an immortal stallion). Despoina would later become the goddess of winter, and would often look after Demeter's temples as a high priestess. Her twin brother Arion, however, was far more prominent, and would often come to the aid of demigod heroes (such as Hercules ).

Rivalry with Athena [ ]

Athena and Poseidon had a rivalry between them since the two of them both wanted to be the patron of the city Attica , as it was named at the time. It was soon renamed into Athens (the current capital of Greece), after Athena. The people of the city petitioned the two gods to each create a gift for the city, and whichever gift was favored the most, that god would be the city's patron. Athena gave the people an olive tree and Poseidon made them a salt-water spring and created horses. At first, the people of Attica thought Poseidon's gift was the more amazing, that is until they tasted the water and realized it was salt-water. Because they couldn't drink the water, they chose Athena's gift of an olive tree and the city's king Kekrops made her the patron goddess of the city because they could use the olives for food and oil. As a show of appreciation to Athena, they named the city Athens after her and they turned the symbol of the city to an owl on an olive branch. They also had people build her the Parthenon in her honor.

Another version says that Poseidon created a spring during his entrance and offered horses as a gift. The people of Attica chose Athena's gift due to the potential of monetary gain from the olive trees. That version was presented in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods .

Athena , his rival

Another time which marks a conflict between the two Olympians was when Athena transformed Koroneis, whom Poseidon was trying to seduce, into a raven as a response to her prayer for help. As a result, a furious Poseidon longed for revenge. Hence, he took Medusa , his new lover, into Athena's temple. Furious with Poseidon and Medusa, Athena turned Medusa and her two sisters who had helped her sneak into the temple (although Percy Jackson's Greek Gods say Poseidon did it by himself) into the three fearsome Gorgons . She additionally cursed Medusa, so that whenever anyone looked into her eyes, they would be turned to stone forcing the 3 gorgons to flee. As revealed in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Poseidon encouraged Hephaestus to try to seduce Athena. Yet another time both of them were at odds about Odysseus. While Poseidon was furious with him for blinding his son Polyphemus, Athena favored him above all other mortals and was always willing to aid Odysseus when he needed it most.

Despite their long-term mutual animosity, there were times when Athena and Poseidon worked together. They were responsible for inventing the chariot , which combined their creations. Athena came up with the idea for the shape and design of the chariot, while Poseidon supplied the horses to pull it. Furthermore, both Athena and Poseidon were on the same side during the Trojan War, supporting the Greeks.

Olympian Murder Trial [ ]

After Poseidon's son, Halirrhothius, attempted to rape Ares' daughter, Alcippe, she summoned her father for help. The infuriated god of war quickly arrived, and brutally slayed Halirrhothius. An outraged Poseidon demanded that Ares be put on trial for the murder of his son, to which Zeus agreed. The first ever Olympian murder trial took place on the Areopagus Hill in Athens. Zeus, as the supreme god, was the Chief Justice, while the other ten Olympians served as members of the jury. In the end, Zeus justly acquitted Ares, since the latter was defending his daughter's honor.

Olympian Riot, and Poseidon's Punishment [ ]

Hera , enraged at her husband's infidelity, decided to start the first (and last) Olympian riot against Zeus . Hera managed to gain the support of Poseidon, as well as Apollo , and Athena . That evening, Poseidon, Apollo , and Athena hid themselves in the hall adjacent to Zeus' royal chambers, awaiting Hera's signal. As soon as Zeus had fallen asleep, all four of them quickly tightly bound the King of Olympus with unbreakable and tightening golden chains. Even chained up and completely immobilized, an infuriated Zeus looked very intimidating. Finally, Poseidon attempted to reason with his brother, and demanded that Zeus be a better ruler in return for them releasing him. Zeus refused, which prompted Hera to advocate leaving him chained up in his chambers until he agreed. Shortly thereafter, the four Olympians departed for the Throne Room for the first (and last) democratic meeting of the Olympian Council, which proved to be a very cumbersome task. Fortunately, the violently trashing and bellowing King of Olympus was found by the Nereid Thetis. After convincing Zeus to be merciful towards the rioting Olympians, Thetis managed to find the Hekatonkheire Briares by the sea shore. He was more than happy to save Zeus, recalling that he owes his own freedom from Tartarus and Kampê to him. Briares quickly unchained Zeus, after which the latter seized his Master Bolt , and barged into the Throne Room, violently ending the meeting. Zeus remained true to his word, and was merciful towards the rioters, but he still punished them all accordingly.

Poseidon and Apollo were temporarily forced to serve Laomedon, the mortal King of Troy, without their divinity or godly powers, which Zeus temporarily stripped away. Laomedon ordered Poseidon to build huge new walls around the city of Troy with his bare hands. The former god of the seas was outraged at the prospect, but Laomedon promised to greatly reward Poseidon after his work is finished. Even without his powers and divinity, Poseidon's strength still far surpassed that of any mortal, and he could easily carry six massive stone blocks simultaneously while building the mighty walls. The famous Walls of Troy came to be extremely durable, and would later keep the Greek forces at bay for 10 long years in the Trojan War. A number of years later, after finally accomplishing his mission, Poseidon finally returned to the king, and demanded the reward. However, Laomedon claimed that setting him free is the best reward that Poseidon could hope for. An infuriated Poseidon returned to Olympus, where Zeus finally restored his brother's powers and divinity. However, due to Poseidon's riot, Zeus would gain a strong and lasting distrust for Poseidon.

Poseidon, still furious with King Laomedon, made it his mission to sink many Trojan ships, and sent a bloodthirsty sea serpent to terrorize the Trojans. Also, in the subsequent and bloody Trojan War, Poseidon supported the Greeks.

In the Series [ ]

Sally Jackson, his former lover and Percy's mother.

Over the centuries the Olympians moved west to the countries that held the seats of their great power and influence. During World War II , Zeus' and Poseidon's demigod children fought together against Hades' own demigod children.

After Hades' side (Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Imperial Japan) was defeated, the Oracle of Delphi prophesied that a half-blood child of one the three brothers would either cause the downfall or salvation of Olympus. This caused The Big Three gods to swear an oath to no longer sire any more demigod children.

However, some years later, Poseidon would fall in love with the clearsighted mortal Sally Jackson , and have one half-blood child with her, Perseus Jackson. He left her before their son was born and told her to send their child to Camp Half-Blood when he was old enough.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Percy Jackson, whom Poseidon sired against the oath of the Big Three.

After Percy survives the attack during his first game of Capture the Flag at camp, Poseidon claims him as his own son. This causes discord among the gods of Olympus as it is proof that Poseidon had not honored the sacred oath on River Styx that was made between the Big Three after World War II . After Zeus ' lightning bolt is discovered to be missing, Zeus immediately suspects Poseidon of having used Percy to steal it, and demands that it is returned by the Summer Solstice , or there would be a war. Poseidon, in turn, wants an apology for being suspected by the same date.

A quest is eventually given to Percy to find the missing lightning bolt and return it by the Summer Solstice in order to stop a war among the gods. Percy succeeds, and Poseidon gets to meet his son in person. Poseidon tells Zeus that he admits his wrongdoing, and Percy feels as if he is just a mistake, and not actually Poseidon's son. Poseidon feels very sorry for Percy, because heroes typically meet tragic ends. Percy tells his father he isn't sorry for being who he is, and Poseidon in turn tells him that he is a true son of the Sea God.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Tyson, his Cyclopes son.

Poseidon does not make a physical appearance, but he is said to have sent his Cyclops son Tyson to the same school as Percy, in order to get them to know each other. After Poseidon claims Tyson as his son, Percy temporarily begins to feel that being a son of Poseidon is a joke and is teased by many other campers for having a cyclops as a half-brother.

Tyson later tells Percy that he had asked for a companion, a brother to Poseidon, and his wish was granted, which means that Poseidon does care for him. Poseidon also sends the Hippocampi to help Percy and his friends.

On Polyphemus's Island, the cyclops prays to Poseidon to curse Percy for taking back the Golden Fleece which he stole to lure Satyrs to their deaths. But as his half-brother pointed out, their father won't curse him like he did Odysseus since the sea god wouldn't play favorites.

After returning from the Quest for the Golden Fleece , Percy gets a letter from Poseidon telling his son to "Brace yourself."

The Titan's Curse [ ]

After completing their quest to save Artemis , Percy, Thalia Grace , and Annabeth Chase arrive to the Winter Solstice meeting. Athena suggests the gods kill Percy because he is meant to be the child of the Great Prophecy, since Thalia pledged herself to Artemis, meaning she would never reach the age of sixteen. Poseidon places faith in Percy and claims he can be trusted, giving the other gods his word. Fortunately, the majority of the gods vote in Percy's favor. Poseidon also vouches for Bessie the Ophiotaurus. He suggests the gods keep it on Olympus . After the meeting, a party is held and Poseidon has a private talk with Percy, confirming Annabeth's statement that Luke was still alive and assuring Percy that Atlas will not escape again.

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Poseidon visits Percy , Sally Jackson , and Tyson at their apartment. Sally is embarrassed at seeing her old boyfriend again, who notes her to be as "beautiful as ever". Percy and Tyson greet him, and Poseidon is introduced to Sally's boyfriend, Paul Blofis , who Poseidon at first mistakenly calls "Blowfish." Poseidon then tells Percy of the war he is having in his underwater kingdom , and gives him a birthday present: a sand dollar as well as labeling Percy as his favorite son. Percy thinks that his arrival was the best gift in itself.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Triton , his son.

When Percy meets Poseidon in his kingdom, he looks aged and weak, unlike the god Percy once knew. Poseidon is busy fighting the Titan of the sea, Oceanus , who is constantly attacking his kingdom. Poseidon had been fighting so hard, his strength has deteriorated which results in him looking aged. Percy offered to fight, but Poseidon told him that he was needed on the surface and to tell Chiron that it was time for his son to learn the complete prophecy that had been hidden from his son.

During the Battle of Manhattan , Percy goes up to Olympus and sits on his father's throne to try and get his attention. Poseidon was about to blast whoever it was that dared to sit on his throne, but thankfully looked before doing so and didn't blast Percy. His son tried to convince him that the other gods needed his help in stopping Typhon , but Poseidon was unwilling as he would lose his own palace in Atlantis if he left. Percy counters saying that Olympus is his home as well and Poseidon thinks this over. Percy then jumped off of Poseidon's throne to rejoin the battle.

As Typhon entered the city and started his final charge toward Olympus, he stepped into the Hudson River, where Poseidon had been waiting with an army of Cyclopes , lead by Tyson . As the Cyclopes wrapped him in heavy chains, Poseidon struck Typhon with his trident and the other gods attacked as well. Poseidon then created a channel of water that pulled the defeated Typhon into the pits of Tartarus .

After the Battle of Manhattan , Poseidon returned to Olympus , along with the other gods. Poseidon begins to thank his son for what he had done for the gods, but is interrupted by Zeus, who asked that he rejoin the gods in the proceeding. Poseidon gives his son a wink and walks back to his throne. As Zeus tried very hard to thank his brothers, Poseidon constantly toys with him, making Zeus admit that it would have been impossible to defeat Typhon without his help, instead of simply saying difficult like Zeus had originally done.

The gods then offer Tyson , Grover , Annabeth , Thalia , Nico , and Percy with rewards for saving Olympus and defeating the Titan Army . Poseidon states that Percy has surpassed all heroes including Hercules (much to Zeus' annoyance) and afterwards gives Percy a hug to which Percy starts tearing up (as it was the first time his father had ever hugged him). Later on the beach at Camp Half-Blood , Poseidon thanks Percy for saving Olympus once again. He also says that he may send Percy some siblings in the future. Percy wonders if this is a joke or not, as Poseidon gives him his signature wink. Poseidon then leaves, leaving behind a troubled Percy who still isn't sure whether or not it was a joke.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

While not seen, Annabeth mentioned Poseidon when giving Piper McLean a tour of Camp Half-Blood . When Piper asked if Zeus and Hera's Cabin were empty, Annabeth explained the Pact of the Big Three , saying that Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades went a long time without having any demigod children for the better part of seventy years ( with some exceptions ).

Poseidon is later mentioned when Jason Grace , Leo Valdez , and Piper McLean visit the home of Aeolus , an extravagant news man. While giving the weather forecast, he tapped his earpiece and announced that Poseidon was angry with Miami, so Aeolus sent a winter freeze their way before apologizing to Demeter .

The Son of Neptune [ ]

Percy was on a quest with Hazel Levesque and Frank Zhang , they meet a horse named Arion and Percy starts talking to the horse. When Hazel questions how he can talk horse, Percy says it is a Poseidon thing. Frank also finds out on this quest that his ancestor was Periclymenus , a grandson of Poseidon who was gifted with the ability to change into any animal, a gift that was passed down in the family . A joke is passed about Frank being Percy and Tyson's great, great, great, great, great, etc grand nephew as Frank is descended from Poseidon. Later, Hazel and Frank both figure out that Percy is not a son of Neptune, but a son of Poseidon, his Greek aspect.

During the battle with Alcyoneus , Frank uses his gift to change into different animals. Percy complains that Poseidon didn't give him a cool gift like that, but Frank points out Percy's other abilities .

The Mark of Athena [ ]

Poseidon, along with most of the other Olympians, was incapacitated (with his personality split between him and his Roman form Neptune ) after Leo was manipulated by Gaea into shooting upon Camp Jupiter from the Argo II .

Poseidon is mentioned whenever Annabeth asks if Percy has seen his dad recently. Percy says that he hasn't seen his dad since last August when he turned 16.

When Leo asked the Ichthyocentaur if they wanted to meet Percy, they said they choose not to interact with children of Poseidon because of their politics.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

When Reyna , with the help of six pegasi finally manages to place the Athena Parthenos on Half-Blood Hill , golden light ripples across the ground, seeping warmth into the bones of both Greek and Roman demigods, and curing all of the Olympians (including Poseidon) of their split personalities. As a result, Poseidon promptly arrives in Athens to participate in the final battle with the Giants. He helps his son, Percy , fight the Giant twins Otis and Ephialtes , whom they quickly kill together, after which Hades sends their bodies back to Tartarus . After the battle, Poseidon is seen having what Jason thinks is "an intense discussion" with his sisters Hera and Demeter . He then specifies to Zeus who his daughter Kymopoleia is, and agrees that Athena is right "for once" and that the real fight isn't truly over yet. He then watches as Zeus hurls the Argo II back to Camp Half-Blood .

Demigods & Magicians [ ]

The Crown of Ptolemy [ ]

When teaming up with the Egyptian goddess Nekhbet , she notes that Percy Jackson hosting her would make for a very unusual and powerful combination due to him being the son of Poseidon. During battle with Setne , Percy falls into the ocean where the saltwater heals him and restores his powers quicker than usual. Percy theorizes that Poseidon may have been helping him heal faster given the fact that it was so quick.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Poseidon reveals to Percy that, because he's a son of one of the Big Three in violation of the Pact of the Big Three , Percy will need three godly recommendation letters to get into New Rome University . Poseidon expresses regret for not being able to help his son more in getting into college.

After Percy gets to school late, he discovers that Poseidon called the school to get Percy's tardiness excused. Percy is shocked to hear Poseidon on a landline and imagines his father sitting poolside in an air bubble on the continental shelf with his phone plugged straight into the undersea transatlantic cable, explaining his clear connection. Poseidon compliments Percy on his work with retrieving Ganymede's Chalice and states that calling the school for him is the least that he can do.

Percy asks his father why he's helping out now, since this is pretty hands on for a god and Percy has been in way worse situations, and Poseidon tells him about how small waves hold a lot of power and can prove what the ocean is capable of when no one is paying attention. Poseidon has always been keeping an eye on Percy, mostly from a distance, and watched him save the world multiple times and conquer enemies that would scare most immortals. However, it isn't until today that Poseidon realized just how much of a hero his son truly is. Not for attending Zeus' brunch which Poseidon calls foolhardy, admitting that he'd never go to one himself, but for accepting Geras ' challenge when Percy could've just walked away and left Ganymede to his fate and probably gotten Geras to write him a letter of recommendation instead. Instead, Percy chose to honor his promise and risk his life for a cupbearer that he barely knows. Not because of a letter or because the fate of the world was at stake, but because that's just who Percy is. Today, Percy created a small wave, and he showed what the ocean is capable of. Percy gets emotional at how much his father understands him, realizing that just like the sea, Percy is a part of Poseidon. Percy says goodbye after asking Poseidon to allow the river god Elisson to do a yoga class at Poseidon's palace sometime, and notices the secretary Margaret laughing at something that Poseidon is saying, quickly deciding that he doesn't want to know if they're flirting. Percy finds the call surreal as well as the fact that he'd been watching which Percy feels almost makes up for all of the demi-bags that Poseidon never brought him. However, Percy honestly can't blame his father for skipping the Olympian brunches.

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

Poseidon is mentioned several times as Percy embarks upon his second quest for a Letter of Recommendation , this time from Hecate . After being transformed into a half-octopus, Percy considers asking Poseidon to turn him back, but thinks that since Triton is immortal with two fish tails, the god might not see the problem about having a half-octopus for a son. Percy worries that he and Poseidon might end up getting into a debate about whether land or sea animals are better ending with Poseidon telling Percy that he had always wanted an octopus for a son and Percy should consider himself lucky. Later, Annabeth tells Percy that it was Poseidon who had built the walls of Troy with magic. Percy can't remember if he'd heard that story before or not, but it sounds strange to Percy who can't imagine his father as a bricklayer.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Apollo mentioned the sea god when seeing the physical similarities between him and Percy.

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

Seeing the springs near the cave of Trophonius , Apollo thinks of his uncle. After having to give Meg McCaffrey mouth-to-mouth, Apollo imagines that Poseidon after kissing Medusa felt the same way he did.

The Burning Maze [ ]

While looking among Caligula's shoes for the ones he will need to cross the labyrinth, Apollo finds a pair of Poseidon's shoes.

The Tyrant's Tomb [ ]

Apollo remembers his uncle inviting him for a ride in a boat pulled by a sea creature.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

In the "Advance Commentary" on the back cover of the book, Poseidon correctly hoped that Percy stayed out of this, saying he deserved a break.

Two weeks after Apollo defeats Python , he attends a meeting, but barely pays attention and quickly leaves when it ends.

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Hammer of Thor [ ]

Annabeth mentions him when trying to decide how the Greek gods and Norse gods divide up shared territory.

The Ship of the Dead [ ]

Percy mentioned Poseidon when telling Magnus how sea gods get possessive of their magic items, stating that Poseidon is super paranoid about losing his trident .

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Court of the Dead [ ]

Frank Zhang tells Johan that he can shapeshift because he's a descendant of Poseidon's grandson Periclymenus.

Appearance [ ]

Once described by Sally Jackson in The Lightning Thief as "tall, handsome, powerful, yet gentle", Poseidon has black hair, a neatly trimmed black beard, a deep tan, and sea-green eyes (inherited from his mother Rhea ) that were surrounded by sun-crinkles that told one he was prone to smiling. His hands are also scarred like an old-time fisherman's. When casual (which is almost always), he wears Birkenstocks (leather sandals), khaki Bermuda shorts, a Tommy Bahama shirt with coconuts and parrots all over it (or any other Hawaiian shirt), and a cap decorated with fishing lures which says "Neptune's Lucky Fishing Hat."

In Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , while trying to court Demeter , Poseidon wore magnificent flowing green robes, with a crown of seashells on his head.

During The Last Olympian , due to his kingdom being destroyed in his battle with Oceanus , Poseidon's visage had aged to that of an old man with a bushy white beard and gray hair, and his battle armor seemed to weigh him down. When Percy asks what happened to him, he says he chooses to reflect the state of his realm, which was quite grim. However, when he abandoned the battle against Oceanus to help the other gods fight Typhon , his appearance returns to normal: tan and strong with a black beard, and glowing with a blue aura of power. Poseidon's favorite demigod son, Percy Jackson , was noted to be nearly the spitting image of his father, with the same black hair, sea-green eyes, and brooding look. Percy had also inherited Poseidon's handsomeness, as confirmed by Hazel in The Son of Neptune , where she stated that "[Percy] had the good looks of a Roman god." That was also part of the reason why Medusa wanted to keep a statue of Percy: to remind herself of her past affair with his father.

Personality [ ]

Poseidon is overall a benevolent god , even though he shares many characteristics with Zeus including pride, stubbornness, and a fearsome temper. However, he appears to have matured over the centuries to a point where these attributes do not dominate Poseidon to the same extent they do Zeus, making him much more reasonable. Poseidon loves and cares for his children and watches over them more than most of the other gods, actively giving them advice, and aiding them indirectly, though this might be since he only has one son. Poseidon has a more caring and overall human personality, which Percy inherited many traits from. It should also be noted that despite their occasional quarrels, Poseidon, unlike most other Olympians, was usually on good terms with Ares , and was the one to speak up for the war god when the latter was imprisoned and humiliated by Hephaestus , knowing that nobody else would.

However, when Poseidon falls into depression, he can be extremely dramatic, much like Zeus . In Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , when unable to woo Amphitrite , Poseidon becomes extremely depressed, and pointlessly wandered about his palace, bellowing "louder than a humpback whale", giving many whales and giant squids terrible migraines. Poseidon also greatly admired the fifty beautiful Nereids, and was infuriated when Queen Cassiopeia claimed to be more beautiful than any of them. As a result, Poseidon summoned a gigantic and bloodthirsty sea serpent, and ordered it to terrorize her kingdom. However, he later allowed Perseus to slay the serpent and save Andromeda (Cassiopeia's daughter) from it in Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes . However, after her death, while Poseidon did place Cassiopeia in the sky as a constellation, he insisted on placing her there upside-down as a final punishment. But perhaps the most infamous example of Poseidon's vengeful rage occurred after Minos refused to appease the sea god by sacrificing the a white bull that the god had previously sent him, so an infuriated Poseidon had Aphrodite force Pasiphaë to fall madly in love and mate with the white bull, which resulted in the birth of the fearsome Minotaur .

Poseidon also has a very particular sense of humor, sometimes making it hard to tell if he is joking or not. After Percy saves Olympus in The Last Olympian , he tells him he can now claim all his other children and gives Percy a wink as if he's joking. He also has a habit of toying with his younger brother. As Zeus is begrudgingly thanking his brother for his help in defeating Typhon, Poseidon would interrupt with phrases like "I'm sorry brother. What was that?" and correcting him when Zeus says it would have been "difficult" instead of "impossible" to defeat Typhon . It has also been shown that he is very protective as seen in The Last Olympian when Percy in attempting to convince him to help Olympus, he states that he must protect his home (the sea), but Percy then reminds him that Olympus is his true home.

Due to caring dearly for his children, according to Polybotes ; Poseidon's greatest weaknesses include his demigod son, Percy Jackson , since if Percy is harmed, the Giants believe that Poseidon will weaken. He also makes every effort to be there for his children. Even though he was forbidden from making contact with Percy directly, he does watch over Percy and guides him whenever he needs guidance such as telepathically telling Percy what to do.

In The House of Hades , it is implied by Hazel that Poseidon has a dark side, something which is reflected by his other son, Sciron .

Unlike his rival Athena, Poseidon isn't biased in any way. Even when Zeus violated the oath not to have any more children, Poseidon isn't known for either cursing Thalia or sending anything to destroy her like Hera and Hades. Furthermore, while Athena didn't approve of her daughter Annabeth's relationship with Percy because of her rivalry with Poseidon, Poseidon doesn't have any ill will towards either Annabeth or her mutual love with his son Percy and may even support their relationship since their third kiss was in his domain.

Abilities [ ]

As one of the Big Three, Poseidon is extremely powerful and has the ultimate powers a god can possess, and is rivaled only by his brothers, Zeus and Hades , although Zeus believes he is more powerful than both his brothers. Poseidon did once have these powers temporarily stripped by Zeus, due to the former's involvement in the Olympian riot, but they were ultimately restored.

Attributes [ ]

Attendants [ ]

Poseidon had many loyal attendants including the 50 Nereids , his wife Amphitrite and their four children (Triton, Rhode, Benthesikyme and Kymopoleia).

Family [ ]

Poseidon is married to Amphitrite and has four children by her, but he is also the father of a diversity of children.

Immortal Children [ ]

Mortal Children [ ]

Legacies [ ]

Gallery [ ]

Trivia [ ]

See also [ ]

References [ ]