Thalia Grace

Biographical information

Full name

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Age

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Height

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Actor

Thalia Grace is the Greek demigod daughter of Zeus and the mortal Beryl Grace , and the older sister of Roman demigod Jason Grace .  After she was mortally wounded by attacking monsters, she was transformed into a pine tree on Half-Blood Hill , which still stands as the official border for Camp Half-Blood to this day. She was later resurrected by the Golden Fleece under the manipulations of Kronos in an attempt to control the Great Prophecy . She is currently the lieutenant of the Hunters of Artemis , leading them in the absence of the goddess after accepting Artemis' offer following a failed attempt by Kronos to use Thalia to destroy the gods.

Contents

History [ ]

Early Life [ ]

Thalia was born on December 22 to Zeus and Beryl Grace , a beautiful actress in her prime.

After Thalia's birth, Zeus left the Grace household (as is customary for gods) and Beryl became unstable, thinking that she was the best mortal because she caught the attention of the lord of the sky and leader of the gods. When Thalia was seven, Zeus returned in his Roman aspect, Jupiter ; Thalia noted that Zeus in his Roman form was more fatherly and stern towards her and spoke Latin very often. Within the year, Jason Grace , who was unbeknownst to her a Roman demigod, was born. Zeus felt obliged to keep appearing at Beryl Grace's house to please her, but departed a second time because she persisted him incessantly to grant her eternal beauty or a visit to Olympus . As a result, Beryl grew increasingly unstable, descending into alcoholism and performing silly stunts to get attention, which led to her career getting ruined.

When Thalia was nine and Jason was two, their mother took them for a picnic, but when Thalia went to the car for the picnic basket, Hera / Juno took Jason away to Lupa , a she-wolf, at the Wolf House and Thalia found only her mother, crying. Thalia was heartbroken by her brother's "death" and called his disappearance "the last straw" with her mother and ran away from home, never to return. This is the reason why Thalia refuses to use her mother's last name, Grace, only doing so when it's extremely necessary.

Meeting Luke [ ]

Shortly after Thalia came across another demigod, Luke Castellan , a son of Hermes . They became friends and joined forces to fight the monsters that attacked them. It is theorized that Thalia trusted Luke well because he reminded her of Jason, her brother.

Encounter with Hal and Meeting Annabeth [ ]

When Luke was fourteen and Thalia was twelve, they had been following Amaltheia , all the way to Richmond , Virginia . While hiding from Amaltheia, Thalia tells Luke of how Amaltheia had been the one to lead her to Luke, in a dragon's cave outside Charleston. Amaltheia indicated for them to enter a tall, 'creepy' mansion, as Luke describes it. Thalia asks Luke to use his powers to unlock the door, and together they enter the house. Immediately, the door locked behind them, and even Luke couldn't unlock it. Thalia attempts to force open a window, but is attacked by the enchanted drapes. The two of them run upstairs, following a disembodied voice, until they reach another room.

The door behind them locks again, and they are greeted by an elderly man who introduces himself as Halcyon Green, son of Apollo. In the room, a cell traps a monster, a leucrota, as they later learn. Halcyon Green quickly explains that the leucrota spoke for him, as Apollo punished him by taking his voice and trapping him in his mansion. Halcyon Green had used his powers of prophesying to save the life of a girl who was destined to die, something Apollo forbid him to do. From then on, he had to depend on helping the monsters lure demigods to their deaths to get food. The bars would rise at sundown, and the leucrotae would eat Luke and Thalia. Thalia then asks Hal to send the monsters away, so that they could talk in private. Halcyon tells them that most demigods had been lured there because of the treasure in a locked chest. Thalia realizes that Amaltheia wanted her to find the treasure. Luke manages to open the lock and they find a silver bracelet. Hal then tells them that Apollo said his curse was destined to be lifted when the owner of the treasure claimed it.

Thalia tries to activate the bracelet, thinking that it must have some special power, and meanwhile, Luke searches the internet for ideas on how to escape. Halcyon Green then decides to try and read the future once again for them. He sees that they would survive and that Thalia would sacrifice herself for her friends, but one day find her family. Here, Thalia automatically thinks of her brother, Jason, who she believes to be dead. Hal sees fire in Luke's future and a betrayal. Luke suddenly thinks to use Greek fire to escape, and the three search Hal's library for a recipe. Luke mixes a potion for Greek fire, and Thalia tries to summon a lightning bolt to finish it. Meanwhile, Halcyon Green gives Luke his diary and his knife and tells him to learn from his mistakes. Just then, the bars lift, and the leucrotae come out. Hal sacrifices himself to give Luke and Thalia enough time to run for it. He uses the bomb to set the mansion on fire, and while being attacked by the monsters, Luke figures out how to activate the bracelet, by using a code word, Aegis.

After escaping the mansion and hiding out in Richmond Ironworks , the two run into Annabeth Chase , a plucky, blonde-haired seven-year-old demigod. Luke admired her courage and gave her his knife, promising that he wouldn't fail her as her family had. The three of them stayed in different safe houses for protection and shelter until their nearest one was destroyed and Thalia's leg was injured. Luke was forced to return to his home for supplies. The three of them met May Castellan , Luke's mother who had gone insane after trying to become the new Oracle of Delphi, and Hermes , Luke's father. As May bandaged Thalia's injured leg, Luke and Hermes got into an argument, causing Luke to storm out of the house with Annabeth and Thalia following not too far behind.

Meeting Grover and Cyclops Encounter [ ]

Soon, they were found by a satyr named Grover Underwood who tried to get them to Camp Half-Blood . Together, the quartet traveled as they were being chased by monsters from the Underworld . Upon discovering Thalia's existence, Hades (still bitter over Maria 's death in Zeus' attempt to kill Hades' children and wife Maria di Angelo and shocked at his younger brother's hypocrisy at breaking the oath they made not to sire any more demigod children), sent the most dangerous monsters from the Underworld (including the three Furies ). They also took some wrong turns along the way Cyclops in Brooklyn stopped them so that monsters could catch up. The Cyclops held Thalia, Luke, and Grover in the air over a pot to direct the monsters in their direction, after tricking them by using the voices of other people but Annabeth saved them by stabbing the Cyclops in the foot.

Meeting the Hunters [ ]

Beforehand, they had met the Hunters of Artemis , and Zoë Nightshade almost convinced Thalia to join the Hunt, but Thalia refused to leave Luke. She and Zoë argued and Zoë told her that Luke would disappoint her just as Hercules had disappointed Zoe.

Sacrificing Herself [ ]

Once they reached camp, a hoard of monsters attacked (all three Furies and an army of hellhounds), and Thalia sacrificed her life on Half-Blood Hill to protect Annabeth, Luke, and Grover so they could reach the camp safely. Zeus took pity on his daughter and to prevent her soul from going to Hades, he turned Thalia into a pine tree .

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Thalia is mentioned once in one of Percy's dreams and when Grover tells her story. Her story is told to Percy by Annabeth and Grover. Percy describes her as having stormy green eyes, despite stating later that she had electric blue eyes.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Thalia's Pine Tree is poisoned and the magical borders around camp are failing. Clarisse La Rue is sent by Tantalus and Dionysus on a quest to find the Golden Fleece and revive the tree, but Percy and Annabeth don't want to risk Clarisse failing, and also go on a separate quest given by Hermes .

Percy asks Annabeth about Thalia, and whether she would have agreed with Luke (who was responsible for poisoning the tree). Annabeth was exasperated by the question and asked Percy if he would ever betray Olympus , which the answer was no. Annabeth said that Thalia got angry with her father a lot, but her personality and heart resembled Percy, saying that they would either be best friends or try to kill each other, and she would never have betrayed her own family. Thalia later appeared in Percy's dreams with stormy blue eyes this time and it was shown she might be the one to bring Kronos back to life.

Thalia is resurrected after the Golden Fleece purges the poison from her tree with the side effect that it also heals and purges Thalia herself. She appears on the hill the next morning, which is good and bad because it means that Thalia can also be the one of the prophecy and Kronos would take advantage of that. Annabeth, Grover , and Chiron are stunned at Thalia's return, Chiron realized that Kronos planned for Clarisse's whole quest for the sake of this. Curiously, again, they say she has electric blue eyes, contradicting Percy's first mention of Thalia when he said she had stormy green eyes.

Resuming her Life [ ]

Thalia presumably spent the rest of the summer at Camp Half-Blood and got to befriend Percy, and learned about what happened to Luke . Chiron also taught her to manipulate the Mist , unbeknownst to Percy. At the end of the summer, Thalia went to the same all girls boarding school in Brooklyn, New York as Annabeth.

Thalia also returned to Pasadena , California, to look for her mother, Beryl Grace , but found out that she died while drunk driving.

The Titan's Curse [ ]

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Thalia was absent from Camp Half-Blood this summer due to her adventures with Artemis and the Hunters, but she is mentioned once by Percy when talking to Hera , the goddess of marriage, about Zeus and Ms. Grace's past relationship.

The Demigod Files [ ]

Thalia is hunting a golden deer, an animal sacred to Artemis, in the city when she bumps into Percy and thinks it is very strange that they bumped into each other and couldn't just be a coincidence. Nico soon arrives by shadow-traveling (announced as Bianca's little brother by Thalia to his displeasure) and Thalia knows something is wrong, but cannot react quickly enough as the three demigods are dragged into the Underworld. When they arrive, Persephone makes it known that she was the one that brought them together and needs them for a quest. She claims that Hades has made a new symbol of power in the form of a sword, but it had been stolen. Thalia doesn't want any part of the quest, feeling that a new symbol of power will tilt the balance of power between the Big Three gods. However, if the sword escapes the Underworld, it could fall into the hands of the Titans and be used against them.

Thalia agrees to help and the three chase after the sword. During the quest, Thalia keeps an eye out for her mother's soul. They question Sisyphus , but while they ask him about the thief, Thalia holds the boulder and begins pushing it up the hill. She almost makes it before it begins to roll back down the hill. She lets go and the rock rolls back onto Sisyphus who is forced to continue his punishment. Thalia tells them that she almost had it and wanted to try again as if it was part of the punishment. They continue to chase the thief and eventually get the sword back after Percy Jackson with the help of the others battles the Titan Iapetus on the banks of the River Lethe and throws him in - wiping his memory. After Nico decides to stay in the Underworld with Iapetus (renamed Bob), Thalia invites Percy to a place that has amazing cheeseburgers, which he agrees to.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Thalia and the Hunters come to New York City to help the campers fight off Kronos ' army and the Campers are very relieved to see them. She says she has been on a great many adventures and promises both Annabeth and Percy to buy cheeseburgers after the battle and talk about what they've been doing since they last saw each other. During the battle, Hyperion lead a battalion of Laistrygonian Giants into Central Park, where they attacked many dryads and satyrs . The Hunters managed to push them back, with Thalia even calling down a bolt of lightning to turn one to ashes.

Later, Thalia wakes up Percy and tells him that a visitor is there to negotiate with them in a ceasefire, which is the Titan Prometheus . She, Grover, and Percy go to Central Park to meet with him, and she stands off to the side. Percy learns Thalia’s last name, and Thalia says that she no longer uses it. Thalia cries out when the Titan touches Percy’s forehead. Percy is shown a vision of Luke and May Castellan arguing and he can see Thalia sitting at the table, with Mrs. Castellan bandaging her leg. In the vision, Luke calls out to Annabeth and Thalia, and says that they are leaving. Thalia was instantly worried when Percy left the vision and asked him what it was. Thalia also was worried when she saw Elpis .

When they returned to the plaza, Percy tells Thalia about his vision and Thalia says that Annabeth was young on that night, and didn’t understand what was happening. She also says she never saw May have a breakdown, but Luke told her all about it. Thalia tells Percy that Hermes loved Luke and that there was nothing they could’ve done, and they shouldn’t start feeling sorry for Luke now. Thalia also says that she is worried about Annabeth and doesn’t know if she can face Luke, as she saw him as her hero. Thalia tells Percy to rest, as he may never rest again, and she goes to check on the Hunters, and locks Elpis in a vault, per Percy’s request.

The next day, Thalia discusses the battle with Percy, Annabeth, Rachel, and the campers, and fight off Kronos. Thalia tells Percy and Annabeth to go to Olympus , and that they need them more than ever. Thalia later marches in and tells Percy that Kronos is leading is army near. Thalia and her friends raced to the street, but it was too late, and some of her Hunters were injured. Luke/Kronos injured Chiron and frantically tried to unbury him from the bricks he was buried in. Thalia held her ground against Kronos and later raced for the elavators for Olympus with Annabeth, Percy, and Grover.

Thalia had to jump over the bridge to Olympus, which she hated, due to being afraid of heights. Thalia also grabbed Percy’s legs, saving him from falling. Thalia says that the connection to America and Olympus is failing, and that this will be the end of Olympus. Thalia was angered when a shrine to Artemis was destroyed, saying that Kronos will 
pay. Percy and Annabeth were almost flattened by a crumbling statue of Hera , but Thalia pushed them away and took the fall, burying Thalia’s legs and putting her in pain. They tried to pull her out, but they couldn’t, and it would take many cyclops to pull her out. Thalia tells them that she isn’t going anywhere and to go.

After Kronos was defeated, cyclops pulled Thalia out from the statue, putting her on crutches, but was okay otherwise. Later, when the gods gave out awards, Thalia is called first, being the daughter of Zeus. Zeus promised to help Thalia in getting more Hunters. Artemis complimented Thalia, telling her that she had done well, that her dead hunters will never be forgotten, and that their dead will go to Elysium .

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

Annabeth mentions Thalia on several occasions throughout the book. While talking to Piper McLean , she mentions how her friend cheated death by being turned into a pine tree, and how she joined the Hunters of Artemis . Annabeth later mentions her to Jason and tells him what happened to her. After he learned about her, he realized that she was his sister, and told Annabeth, to her disbelief. Jason takes a picture of her and carries it on his quest. After Piper asks, Jason tells her who she is. Jason later realizes that Thalia and the Hunters had been in Midas's palace.

Later, when Jason, Piper, Gleeson Hedge and Leo Valdez were in Colorado facing Lycaon , Thalia and the Hunters came to aid them. Thalia ordered Phoebe to stay with her and ordered the rest to track Lycaon. Thalia then asked the quartet if they were alright, saying they were tracking the wolves for awhile, and Piper immediately recognized Thalia and said she knew who she was. Thalia asked if she knew her, and Jason said he was her brother. Thalia was overjoyed to see him and gave him a big hug, sobbing, saying she recognized his scar, telling the others how he got it. A wolf approaches Thalia, and Thalia told Jason that she didn't have much time, but they must talk. After Piper collapsed, Thalia recognized that it was hypothermia and asked if Coach Hedge knew nature healing, and Thalia glared at Leo for having an incompetent satyr. Thalia then ordered Phoebe to take Hedge and Piper to be healed while she stayed with Jason.

Jason, Leo, and Thalia didn't talk for a few minutes, with Thalia not happy with Leo sticking around. Thalia became even more annoyed with Leo if he asked her if her whole "not dating thing" was always or more of a seasonal thing, attracted to her. Thalia glared at Leo and looked at him like he was pond scum, making Leo like her even more. Jason apologized for Leo and explained his situation to Thalia. She cursed in Ancient Greek when Jason mentioned Midas. As they talked, Thalia ignored Leo's remark when he called her "Jason’s hot sister". After Thalia realized Jason didn't remember his past, Thalia explained to Jason what happened to their mother, and how he went missing. After Jason mentioned the Roman things he did, Thalia mentioned how Zeus spoke Latin the next time he came, and said Jason may be a Roman demigod. When Thalia learned there were others like Jason, she was shocked and said even though she had been all over the country, she never knew about that and said she must talk to Artemis about it. Thalia explained that Artemis was the one who sent her to fight Lycaon and is still talking to her, though she is secretive about it so Zeus doesn't find out, and she mentioned how finding Lycaon would help her find Percy. Thalia then decided that she would take the quartet to see Aeolus , and said that she could spare a few minutes with Jason before he got annoying.

Thalia rejoins Piper, Hedge, and Phoebe, and gives Leo and Jason some warm clothes and hot chocolate after Leo insisted. Thalia asked Piper if she was alright, and after she said she feels like she can run ten miles, Thalia pats Piper on the back and says she likes the daughter of Aphrodite , since she is tough. Thalia ignored Leo yet again when he tried to flirt. Thalia led them to Aeolus's palace, and explained how the mist covered up the palace. After Jason said that the palace was huge, Thalia laughed and said he should see Olympus . Thalia was shocked when she found out Jason could fly, since she never tried. They go on the bridge, and Thalia orders Phoebe to go with the other Hunters. While climbing the bridge, Thalia realized that Jason was the clue Artemis gave her after Leo realized Jason came from another camp. Thalia freaked out when she found out Hera was in the Wolf House , and told Jason that she and the Hunters would hold the Wolf House so they could save Tristan McLean , and promised that they would meet him there.

The next day, after defeating Enceladus , Thalia sent the quartet an Iris Message . Thalia said that she found Hera and that they've been holding down the Wolf House, but they cannot hold the Giants forces off forever and tells Jason to come quickly. Thalia says that Porphyrion is rising and told him that he would find the Wolf House by remembering his last trip.

The quartet was greeted by Thalia when they made it to the Wolf House. Thalia defeated an Earthborn as soon as they arrived and her arrow broke, much to her frustration. Leo complimented her on her shot, which Thalia ignored, as usual. Thalia hugged Jason and gave Piper a nod, and said that they didn't have much time, since the house is overrun by Venti, Wolves, and Earthborns. She said that a freak snowstorm came and the house became overrun by monsters. She and her Hunters tried to free Hera, but they couldn't figure out how to break the cage. When they arrived at the cage, Thalia mentioned that her heart wasn't in freeing her and that she wanted to leave her there. Hera threatened Thalia, and Thalia yelled at Hera for everything she had done to Annabeth, Jason, and her, and said she should just leave her to Gaea . Jason intervened and told her to stop, and Thalia agreed, but only for Jason's sake. Thalia then stormed out of the Wolf House.

Thalia returned after Jason was fatally injured and sat by Piper, her hand on Jason's forehead. Thalia yelled at Hera and said it was her fault, telling her to do something about Jason. Hera told her to not address her that way and Thalia yelled at her to fix him. After Jason woke up, Thalia was relieved and asked Jason how he felt. After Jason said he saw something really terrible, Thalia joked that it was Hera, the loose cannon, and Hera finally snapped and threatened to turn Thalia into an aardvark. They both stopped arguing after Piper told them to stop. Piper told Thalia and Hera to stop arguing and that Thalia would've never found Jason if not for Hera. Thalia grunted and said that Piper had spirit, and gave her a Hunters business card, saying she could use her as a Hunter. After Hera explained things to them, Thalia said that she had to find Annabeth to explain things to her. Jason was hesitant about her leaving but Thalia said that she would never lose him again and that she will meet him back at Camp Half-Blood . She then ordered Hera to bring them back safely. Thalia then hugged Jason and left.

Thalia ended up not being able to meet them at Camp, though Chiron reassured Jason to not take it personally, and Hunters plans change a lot. Piper also burned the business card Thalia gave her, for Jason.

The Son of Neptune [ ]

There are two parts in which she is either mentioned or appeared. First, in Percy's dream which was a flashback of him in The Titan's Curse , Thalia, Percy , and Zoë Nightshade battling on Mt. Tam going against Atlas , Luke , and trying to save Annabeth and Artemis . Percy later sees Zoë dying and rise to the stars. Second, though Thalia was never mentioned, when Hylla , the Queen of the Amazons, talks to Hazel Levesque she mentions a group of archers that travel around who follow the goddess Artemis, which refers to the Hunters.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

She is mentioned by Percy when he meets Jason for the first time. "'Wow. You're Thalia Grace's brother. You guys look nothing alike'" Percy said. 'I noticed', Jason replied" 
She is also mentioned by Percy again when they land in Rome . "He wished Jason's sister was here. Thalia was good at manipulating the Mist , unlike Percy, who always thought Don't look at me, and hope not to notice the giant greek warship landing in the middle of morning rush hour.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

While Nico , Reyna , and Gleeson Hedge are in Portugal, Nico suggests asking Thalia for advice on defeating Orion , and could send her an Iris Message . Nico sent Thalia a message in her dream about Orion hunting them, which wasn’t pleasant. Later, when Reyna, Nico, and Hedge arrived in San Juan, Thalia and her Hunters threw a dart in Reyna’s neck and put a cloth sack over her head, and tied her to a chair in a cell.

When Reyna beat up her captor, Thalia told her to take it easy, that Nico and Hedge were unharmed, and that Reyna couldn’t defeat them, three to one. Reyna demanded to see Thalia, not knowing that it was her, and Thalia laughed hysterically, telling her that Jason said she was good, but she didn’t know she was that good. Thalia and the Hunters freed Reyna and led her through corridors, apologizing for kidnapping her. Thalia tells Reyna that she is working with the Amazons , and that even if they don’t see eye to eye, they still work together to defeat Gaea . Reyna tells Thalia how Jason is, and Thalia that she intercepted Reyna’s shadow traveling to bait her into a trap, stopping Orion. Thalia promises to return Reyna’s weapons when she leaves, and that she left Nico and Hedge a note so they wouldn’t worry about her. Thalia leads Reyna to Hylla and wishes her luck.

Later, while fighting Orion, Thalia returned, and Hylla tells Reyna to go with her, and she does. Thalia says that she needs to go, and that Hylla was right. Thalia ran with Reyna, Hedge, and Nico to a restaurant to get the Athena Parthenos and go. After they left, Reyna was worried about what happened to Thalia, but is relieved when she finds out that she survived.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

Percy mentions Thalia while he was sympathizing with Hecuba . He compares Hecate's witch-turned-hellhound to the daughter of Zeus, mostly how when they were both on the brink of death, their respective gods took pity on them and transformed them to help preserve their spirits.

Between the Series [ ]

Following their meeting in Puerto Rico, Thalia and Reyna become close friends, keeping in close contact for months afterwards. According to Reyna, the experience of fighting Orion together bonded the two. Even after demigod communications go down, Thalia and Reyna keep in contact via regular letters sent to post office boxes, although there can be a delay in responses as a result. In one of her letters, Thalia sends Reyna a list of monster hot spots in the San Francisco Bay Area for Camp Jupiter to keep an eye on.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Apollo recalls having Thalia drive his chariot.

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

Britomartis met with Thalia and the Hunters while they were hunting the Teumessian Fox , and told them to help Apollo , so they went to Indianapolis .

Thalia is first mentioned by Lityerses while talking to Commodus . Lit says that a group of Hunters infiltrated his palace and killed ten men. Commodus was angry when they got away. A few minutes later, the roof collapsed, and Thalia, Leo , and the Hunters came riding in on Festus . Apollo recognized Thalia, and Thalia yelled to save Apollo, relieving him. Thalia told Apollo that they needed to evacuate immediately, and Thalia climbed on Livia , going with Apollo back to the Waystation .

The three rode down Missouri Street, and they turned into an alley, where Thalia and Apollo took off Livia’s armor, which made Livia so grateful that she hugged them with her trunk. Thalia gave Apollo Moonwater , and explained that it isn’t alcohol, but an energy drink. Thalia also told Apollo that Artemis is forbidden to even see him, and cannot give orders to help him, but helped him without orders. Apollo mentioned how he heard Thalia call him hot three years before, and Thalia blushed and said her reasoning and vision were impaired from sap damage. They arrived back at the Waystation, and Thalia led Apollo to the main hall.

Apollo introduced Meg McCaffrey to Thalia, and Thalia tells her that she heard she is a good swordswoman and that Artemis has been watching her, to Apollo’s anger. Thalia laughed and went to check on her Hunters. Later, when Thalia found out about what Lit did, Thalia was furious and on the brink of tears, and said that she fought too many battles and lost too many people at San Juan while fighting Orion . Thalia then said that they will not lose the Waystation, stand with Jo and Emmie , and defeat Commodus. Thalia later ate dinner with Calypso , Emmie, Leo, and Apollo, and said she needed a quiver to shoot Leo. That night, Thalia, Emmie, and Josephine sat at the kitchen table, discussing in hushed tones.

Thalia fought the next day with the Hunters, Jo, Emmie, and the guests at the Waystation against Commodus and is forces. Thalia was standing off against Commodus near the dining table with Jo, Calypso, and Lit, holding Emmie, Georgina , and Leo hostage. A terrified Thalia told Apollo to say the word, and she will shoot the emperor. Apollo ordered Thalia to lower her bow. Thalia also kept her eyes shut while Apollo showed his true form, and had her clothes and hair lightened several shades, and Thalia asked why Apollo was roasted. Thalia tried to shoot Commodus, but missed. After Commodus was pushed out the window, Thalia gathered with the others to the window, and suggested doing a sweep of the neighborhood to look for enemy soldiers. Thalia also watched Georgina recite the next prophecy.

Thalia looked for any sign of Commodus with Olujime and Sssssarah , but he was gone. At dinnertime, Thalia sat at the other end of the table, twirling her dagger. Thalia discussed the Dark Prophecy with the others, and said that the next full moon is in five nights. Apollo asked if Thalia and the Hunters could warn Camp Jupiter in time, but Thalia said that she and the Hunters cannot cover that much ground, and they are busy hunting the Teummessian fox. Leo said that Thalia already had done enough work for them, and Thalia said that Leo owed her Texas hot sauce.

Thalia and her Hunters left Indiana that night at moonrise, and Apollo saw them off. Thalia oversaw her Hunters while they gathered combat ostriches, saying that they will ride them, and then release them to live in peace. Thalia said that Jamie was helping them get ready, but he isn't hunter material, and asked if he wasn’t Greek or Roman. Apollo explained the different pantheons of gods existing to her, and Thalia didn’t get it, but Apollo said that the longer she lives, the weirder the world will get. Thalia then tells Apollo to check on Piper and Jason for her, and Apollo tells her to check on Artemis in return. Thalia then wished Apollo luck, and Apollo wished her happy fox hunting. Thalia said it wouldn’t be happy, but thanked him anyway, and rode down South Illinois street with ostriches.

The Burning Maze [ ]

Grover Underwood mentions Thalia when learning of Jason’s death, wondering how she would take the news. Apollo thinks that he should be the one to break the news to her, and then thinks that he did not want to be in the same state as her when she heard the news of her brother's death.

The Tyrant's Tomb [ ]

Thalia is first mentioned by Reyna and she mentions how they fought Orion together in Puerto Rico, and have kept in touch ever since. Thalia's list of potential monster hot spots helps Reyna, Apollo and Meg McCaffrey pinpoint their destination as Sutro Tower which is on Thalia's list. Reyna calls Thalia a good pen pal. Reyna says that she wrote Thalia a letter about Jason’s death, and sent Aurum and Argentum to look for her, to no avail. Apollo then asked if Reyna and Thalia were involved romantically, and an annoyed Reyna said that she is a celibate Hunter an an excellent friend, and didn’t want to mess that up. Thalia ended up getting Reyna’s letter a few hours before Diana was summoned, and was given to her by an aura. Thalia had time to scream and throw things before she and the Hunters went to Camp Jupiter, arriving just in time to help defeat Tarquin 's undead forces.

Apollo sees Thalia again down the street with a group of survivors, comforting a legionnaire as she cried, looking exhausted after grieving over Jason, making Apollo realize that she had known for awhile. Thalia also helped Reyna find the emperor's abused Pegasi from his chariot. Thalia later spoke to Apollo after Frank 's speech, and said that she doesn't blame him for what happened to Jason, and that heroes have to make hard choices, and how she got Reyna’s letter. Thalia also said how Diana missed her, and gets so worried that she split into her Greek and Roman forms right in front of her, Artemis and Diana, and loved Apollo more than anyone else in the world.

Thalia briefly spoke to Reyna and asked if she was ready, and met her at the Senate House . Thalia then told Reyna to repeat the vow after her to join the Hunters, and then clasped her shoulder and welcomed her to the hunt. Thalia then took the seats of two senators. Thalia and Reyna later said goodbye to Apollo the next day with Aurum and Argentum, wolves, and Pegasi. When Reyna said she looked forward to a vacation, Thalia told Reyna that it wasn’t a vacation, and they need to catch the Teumessian Fox.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

Three months later she and the hunters are at the Waystation , resting up from there latest attempt to catch the Teumessian Fox. She tells Apollo that the daughter of Bellona is one of the best hunters she has ever seen before Emmie calls them to the kitchen to help with dinner.

Personality [ ]

Thalia is an exceptionally brave, strong, and caring girl, though at times she can be profoundly stubborn, prideful, and assertive, much like her father Zeus . She likes to be in charge and give out orders to people and becomes very angry if they are disobeyed (normally by Percy). She also has a bit of a temper, as shown during the Capture the Flag match against the Hunters when Percy left his post, causing them to lose the game, so she shocked him with electricity, causing a fight.

In some ways she's very similar to Artemis, as she enjoys being around her fellow Hunters and is a great fighter. She is also very loyal to those she trusts and respects, as she is willing to risk her life to protect them (for example, when she sacrificed herself on top of Half-Blood Hill). Unlike her fellow Hunters, Thalia apparently does not mind being around boys, as shown in The Lost Hero and many later books. Even though she's sworn off romance forever she loves her brother Jason dearly as shown by her joy upon finally reuniting with him in The Lost Hero and heartbroken by his death. When she is around Percy, Thalia maintains a friendship with him with Percy himself calling her a good friend in The Sword of Hades .

Thalia also possesses a number of similarities with her father, Zeus. Aside from being a proficient warrior and extremely powerful, Thalia is also a great leader when she needs to be and is completely relentless against an opponent. However, Thalia has the unfortunate weakness of being supremely prideful, shown by her demanding that Percy not revealing her being afraid of heights. That said, Thalia is still extremely brave and stunningly loyal, shown by her fighting off the most frightening monsters from the Underworld, namely the Furies and a horde of Hellhounds, at Half-Blood Hill to allow her friends to escape. Her bravery obviously impressed her father, Zeus, for he decided to transform her into a pine tree so that she could survive, but this may have been influenced more by the fact that she was his daughter and Zeus has a bad habit of playing favorites.

Thalia is extremely emotional at times, and this means that her heart can overpower her head. This can be associated with her explosive temper, but also when she became destructively angry when Percy discovered she was afraid of heights. Thalia is also crying rivers whilst fighting Luke in The Titan's Curse , as she could not bring herself to believe that he had betrayed her.

Chiron once said that Percy and Thalia are very much alike. The only difference is that Thalia is more sure of herself, while Percy has less self-confidence.

Fatal Flaw [ ]

Thalia's fatal flaw is that she has a weak resistance when she is offered power (mirroring Zeus's power struggle with his brothers, as she is also conflicted with Percy over capture the flag, and when offered by Luke to kill the Ophiotaurus ). She is also afraid of heights (acrophobia), a quality Percy finds strange and funny, as her father is the Lord of the Sky. However, Thalia demands that Percy doesn't tell anyone else. In the short story, The Sword of Hades, in The Demigod Files , she also shows to be very determined. Thalia has trouble abandoning a difficult task that she has started but is not able to complete.

She also feels massive amounts of guilt about her brother Jason going missing when he was two, as she more or less raised him on her own (her mother was an alcoholic, and therefore, unstable). She had believed for years that her mother had either killed or abandoned him on a family vacation. She never told anyone about this when she ran away, not even Luke or Annabeth .

Appearance [ ]

Thalia is a teenage girl with shoulder-length, spiky black hair, electric blue eyes (though they are "stormy green" in Percy's dream of her in The Lightning Thief and stormy blue in Percy's dream in The Sea of Monsters ), and freckles across her nose. She is described as being "extremely pretty" by fellow campers and Apollo , and is "beautiful", according to Artemis. She typically wears a magical silver bracelet that turns into a modified version of Zeus' shield, Aegis , as well as a collapsible Mace canister that changes into a spear.

Thalia is often described as "punk" or "goth", and while her style of dress varies throughout the books, one of the most consistent features of her appearance is that of a silver circlet on her head, which she received after she became a Hunter of Artemis ; it looks like a princess' tiara according to Percy, and symbolizes her position as the first lieutenant of the Hunters of Artemis.

In The Sea of Monsters , when Percy saw Thalia in a dream, she was described as having spiky black hair, dark eye-liner around her stormy blue eyes, a spray of freckles across her nose, and she wore punk-style clothes with silver chains on her wrists. When she was resurrected near the end of the book, Percy noted that she was built like a long-distance runner, lithe and strong, and she wore clothes that were somewhere between punk and Goth: a black T-shirt, black tattered jeans, and a leather jacket with buttons from a bunch of brands he had never heard of. In The Titan's Curse , Thalia's attire consisted of a ripped-up army jacket, black skintight leather pants and chain jewelry, and she wore black eye-liner around her eyes. In The Last Olympian , Thalia wore a black leather jacket, a "Death to Barbie" T-shirt, with a picture of a Barbie doll with an arrow going through its head, skull-shaped earrings and a silver circlet in her hair.

When she appears in The Lost Hero , Thalia is wearing the typical garb of a Hunter, dressed in a silvery parka and camouflage pants. In The Blood of Olympus , Thalia wore a Camouflage T-shirt, faded black jeans, black athletic shoes, and a utility belt. She had choppy black hair, and startling blue eyes. It is also described that she has a more Mediterranean complexion than her brother, Jason.

In The Dark Prophecy , Thalia wore jeans and a black leather jacket, held together by safety pins and patches. She wore pins of Ramones and Dead Kennedy's. She wore a silver tiara on her forehead. In The Tyrant's Tomb , Thalia wore black denim leather jacket with buttons from punk rock bands. She wore a silver circlet on her forehead, the symbol of Artemis.

Abilities and Tools [ ]

As a daughter of Zeus, one of the Big Three, Thalia is extremely powerful and and is very skilled with a spear (as shown when she defeated Luke in combat). After becoming a Hunter of Artemis, she also became extremely skilled with a bow and arrow and knives.

Being the daughter of Zeus , Thalia is an extremely powerful demigod. She holds divine authority over the creatures of the sky as well as weather, having powers that are much greater than the children of nearly every other god, and is rivaled only by Jason , Percy , Nico , Bianca , and Hazel .

As the lieutenant of Artemis , Thalia has the following abilities.

A replica of Aegis , her shield

Relationships [ ]

Love Interest [ ]

Luke Castellan, her former ally.

It was hinted that before the daughter of Zeus became a Hunter of Artemis , she and Luke had a romantic past when she told Zoë that she wouldn't leave Luke behind. In The Demigod Diaries, Luke said that Thalia can flash those blue eyes, give him one kind word, and get him to do pretty much whatever. He also said and when Thalia asked him to open the safe in Hal's room, he said that maybe next time he teamed up with someone, he should choose someone that he didn’t like so much. She also told Luke that Amaltheia leads her to good things, like him. Furthermore, when Luke told her that the treasure safe in Hal's room had a poison canister ready to break as soon as it got hit on the third number and could kill all of them if he messed up, Thalia said that she trusted him. Thalia kissed him on the cheek when he successfully disabled the poison trap, which she probably shouldn’t have done while he was holding a tube of deadly poison, adding “You are so good.” That made Luke feel that the risk was worth it. Thalia also could not believe it when Hal gave Luke's prophecy, adding that Luke would never betray anyone.

All of that was changed when Luke betrayed Camp Half-Blood for the Titans in The Lightning Thief . It further dissolved after the son of Hermes poisoned her tree in The Sea of Monsters . In The Titan's Curse , Thalia was noted by Percy that she was crying when she fought with Luke, and she stated that she hadn't known peace since she'd traveled with Annabeth and Luke and Thalia also told Percy that she did not join the Hunters of Artemis because that would mean she'd have to leave Luke. One of the reasons Luke betrayed Camp Half-Blood is because he thought it was what Thalia would have wanted, but this is never verified. Also, Luke apparently never got over the fact that Thalia got turned into a tree and her father, Zeus , didn't "save" her. However, it was not known what Thalia thought of him after he sacrificed himself to stop Kronos . Despite their differences, it's shown in The Lost Hero that she kept a picture of herself, Luke and Annabeth in Zeus's Cabin , never bothering to remove it despite Luke's betrayal implying that she did feel sadness and regret after his death.

Friends [ ]

Annabeth Chase , one of her best friends.

Annabeth met Thalia when she was seven, after running away. Annabeth was scared when she met, but Thalia comforted her and introduced herself. Thalia instantly wanted to protect her and get her clothes and food from a safe house. Thalia also thought caring for Annabeth was giving her a second chance after Halcyon Green sacrificed himself for the two. Annabeth ended up joining Luke and Thalia, fighting monsters and becoming close friends and family. Annabeth and Thalia became close and Thalia became protective of her, refusing to join the Hunters of Artemis , which meant leaving her, and they both had a shared love of Luke. They also took a lot of pictures during that time. Thalia told Percy that the best two years of her life were running around with Luke and Annabeth.

Eventually, they started traveling to Camp Half-Blood with Grover Underwood , a satyr . While they were traveling to camp, they got captured by Cyclops , and was separated from Thalia, and found her hanging from the ceiling. She saved her by stabbing a cyclops in the foot and untying Thalia, but being captured allowed monsters to catch up to them. When they arrived at Camp Half-Blood , Thalia sacrificed herself to save Luke, Grover, and Annabeth but got turned into a tree in the process. Annabeth cried while watching Thalia die and was devastated, and blamed herself for what happened to Thalia, and became distrustful of all cyclops, including Tyson . When Thalia was revived due to the Golden Fleece , Annabeth was the first one to find her and stayed by her side in shock, but didn’t celebrate the moment because she wondered what it would mean for the future.

Thalia and Annabeth reconnected over the months, and went to the same boarding school together in New York, being very close again by December. Annabeth told Thalia a lot about architecture, having Thalia memorize a lot of facts about monuments. In The Titan's Curse , they went on a quest to rescue Nico and Bianca from Westover Hall . When Bianca and Nico disappeared, Annabeth immediately ran to get Thalia, showing how much she trusts her and respects her authority. Annabeth ended up sacrificing herself to save Thalia when the Manticore tried to attack her, causing Annabeth to fall off a cliff into darkness. Thalia was upset and angry over losing Annabeth and blamed Percy for what happened to her, especially after Luke was lost too.

Thalia ended up going on the quest to rescue Annabeth, even though there was a risk that she might die in the prophecy. Thalia also helped everyone on the quest by finding the house of Annabeth's dad , because Annabeth gave it to her, showing how much Annabeth told Thalia. Later, they got to Mount Tam , Thalia demanded that Luke let Annabeth go and almost killed Luke to protect her, despite Annabeth’s protest. After Annabeth was rescued, Annabeth was very supportive of Thalia joining the Hunters and squeezed her hand. Thalia also gave Annabeth a big hug after she joined.

Grover Underwood , her protector and friend.

Thalia gets along with Grover reasonably well. Grover was the first Keeper that was supposed to deliver Thalia and the other two half-bloods (Annabeth and Luke) to Camp Half-Blood but failed to do so. As a result, Thalia had been forced to confront a massive amount of monsters that were sent by Hades to hunt them down. Though extremely powerful, Thalia was overwhelmed by their numbers and very nearly perished.

However, her father Zeus took pity on her and turned her into a pine tree. The tree, later known as " Thalia's Pine Tree ," served as a magical barrier to Camp Half-Blood. Once Thalia was alive again, Grover and Thalia's friendship remained strong. She sometimes calls him "Goat Boy."

Percy Jackson , her best guy friend.

Percy first hears about Thalia from Grover Underwood in The Lightning Thief , with Grover and Annabeth blaming themselves for her death. Percy indirectly revives Thalia by bringing back the Golden Fleece and is one of the first people to see her again. Percy instantly becomes worried as he grasps the implications of her return and knows that she is either destined to become his best friend or biggest rival. Even before they met, however, Annabeth noted the recognition similarities between the son of Poseidon and daughter of Zeus, expressing a belief that the pair would be either the closest of friends or fiercest of rivals.

In The Titan's Curse , Thalia and Percy are good friends, and Sally Jackson tells her every embarrassing baby story about Percy to her. However, Percy is jealous that Thalia learned how to control the Mist from Chiron, and is jealous that she is the daughter of Zeus, gets the most attention, and seems to lead everyone. The two get into an argument about Percy facing the Manticore on his own. They later argue when they are co-captains when playing Capture the Flag. The two argue a lot throughout the book but are still friends.

The two later go on the quest to rescue Annabeth, where Thalia gets angry at Percy for telling her Luke is evil. But the two become closer when Percy learns why she and Zoë Nightshade don’t like each other. Percy also helps save Thalia from bronze statues and from the Manticore. Thalia also doesn’t think Percy is crazy when she learns about Rachel Dare. It is Percy who ultimately breaks Thalia out of Luke's influence when he tries to get her to sacrifice the Ophiotaurus to kill the gods. When Thalia joins the Hunters of Artemis , Thalia hugs Percy saying that she is honoring a friend. She encourages Percy to be the hero of the prophecy, believing that he will do a good job of it.

In The Sword of Hades , Percy and Thalia are reunited by Persephone to embark upon a quest with Nico di Angelo for Hades' Sword . Percy calls Thalia "a good friend" and they are instantly pleased to see each other and even make plans to get burgers together once the quest is over. When Percy is injured by a Keres , Thalia is deeply concerned about his health and amazed by Percy's displays of power, particularly in his weakened state.

Bianca di Angelo , a fellow hunter albeit not at the same time.

Thalia meets Bianca when she, Percy, and Annabeth rescue her from The Manticore. Thalia explains to a confused Bianca what half-bloods are and is angry when the hunters want her to join them. Bianca and Thalia go on the quest together to save Annabeth.

Zoë Nightshade , a hunter she quested with.

Thalia first meets Zoë while with Luke and Annabeth, chasing monsters. Zoë asks her to join the Hunters of Artemis , but she refuses, wanting to stay with Luke and Annabeth, angering Zoë which causes a fight between the two, and causing Thalia to hate the Hunters.

In The Titan's Curse , Zoë and Thalia fight a lot, and Zoë calls Thalia a scullion. Thalia gets angry at Zoë for wanting to recruit Bianca di Angelo. Thalia also gets annoyed when Zoë says "thy" and not "your", which annoys Zoë. The two go on the quest to find Annabeth, and the two are at odds a lot, but they become closer and occasionally agree with each other.

Reyna Ramírez-Arellano , a fellow hunter and friend.

Thalia and Reyna first meet in The Blood of Olympus , where Thalia kidnaps her in San Juan . Reyna is angry when she first meets her, hitting her with a chair and almost cutting her throat with her knife, demanding to see Thalia, unaware that the girl that she's holding hostage is actually Thalia herself. Rather than being angry, Thalia is impressed with Reyna's skill. Thalia tells Reyna that the Hunters and the Amazons are working together to defeat Orion and that Reyna is being used as bait for them. They talk and Thalia wishes her good luck when she takes her to Queen Hylla . Thalia respects Reyna, telling her that Jason called her good and addressing her as praetor, while Reyna also respects her, addressing her as lieutenant. Thalia later fights Orion, letting Reyna, Coach Hedge, and Nico escape. After learning that Thalia is still alive from the giant, Reyna is relieved by the news.

In The Tyrant's Tomb , it is revealed that Reyna and Thalia have been writing to each other for months, and have become close friends with Reyna stating that their experiences fighting Orion together had bonded them. Reyna talks fondly of Thalia, to the point where Apollo asks her if they are dating, to which Reyna refuses saying that they are friends and she is an eternal maiden. When Jason died, Reyna sent a letter to Thalia which is later revealed to have reached her due to an aura risking its life to deliver it. The information Thalia that exchanged with Reyna helps to pinpoint the location of Harpocrates as Sutro Tower . Later, Thalia visits Camp Jupiter when Diana is summoned, and Thalia asks Reyna to join the Hunters. When the two see each other, they hug and are happy to meet.

Chiron , her teacher.

We have barely seen Thalia and Chiron interact, but Chiron thinks highly of Thalia and taught her to manipulate the Mist .

Family [ ]

Thalia with Jason , her younger brother.

Jason is Thalia's little brother. It was seen in The Lost Hero that she loved Jason very much and that it almost killed her when Jason was sent away. She also said that what happened with Jason had hurt her so much that she never mentioned Jason to Annabeth or Luke, her two most trusted friends. It was the disappearance of Jason that caused Thalia to finally run away from her broken home.

Beryl Grace , her mother.

According to Thalia in The Lost Hero , she never had a good relationship with her mother, and they constantly argued, given that Beryl was always drunk, crazy and acted like a spoiled child. In fact, Thalia only stayed with Beryl as she did not trust her to look after Jason properly. After Beryl became increasingly unstable and gave Jason away, Thalia ran away from home permanently after a final bitter argument with her mother. Beryl later died in a car accident two years before Thalia's resurrection.

Zeus , her father.

Thalia and her father, Zeus, did not have an intimate relationship. In The Titan's Curse , Kronos tried to exploit this lack of intimacy to make Thalia angry with Zeus: he hit the car that Thalia and her friends were in with a bolt of lightning, which caused her to think that Zeus himself was after her, and it was only through Percy that she realised Kronos' trick. However, at the ending of The Titan's Curse , it was shown that Zeus did have true affection for Thalia: when she and her friends showed up on Olympus, Percy noted how Zeus' initial attention was taken entirely by her.

Hera , her stepmother.

Artemis , her patron and immortal paternal half-sister.

Thalia first had disdain for Artemis and her Hunters for telling her that Luke would let her down. However, Thalia was concerned for her godly sister and rescued her from Luke and Atlas . Artemis made her lieutenant of the Hunters after she rescued her, offering her the position before the Olympian Council as they debated what to do with Thalia and Percy.

Thalia remains loyal and obedient to her patron, Artemis. It was stated by Jason that Thalia had found a new family in the Hunters and a new mother in Artemis . Even after Zeus closed Olympus, Artemis still guided Thalia and her Hunters, eventually leading Thalia to her lost brother, Jason Grace .

Apollo , her immortal paternal half-brother.

Thalia first meets Apollo in The Titan's Curse , where Thalia calls him hot and Apollo playfully flirts with them. Back then, they did not know they were related. Apollo lets Thalia drive his bus and comforts her while she drives his bus.

They meet again in The Dark Prophecy , where they are on good terms and no longer think the other is attractive. Thalia, Leo, and Festus save him on a rescue mission from Commodus. Thalia tells Apollo that she no longer thinks that the god is hot. Thalia later defends the Waystation from Commodus and his army. Thalia and Apollo talk, and Thalia reveals that Artemis misses him, and agrees to say hi to her for him. Apollo, in return, agrees to say hello to Piper and Jason for him. Apollo also tells her about the different pantheons. After Thalia states that the Hunters have to leave, Apollo chooses not to ask any more of them, knowing that they have already done all that they can.

Other [ ]

Nico di Angelo , her acquaintance.

There is not much known about their relationship. In The Sword of Hades , Thalia only seems to know him as Bianca's little brother and refers to him as such. Nico dislikes being called that, but he seems to be on good terms with her, even though he generally dislikes the Hunters of Artemis since his sister joined them and died shortly afterwards. Nico and Thalia have worked well together as a team when they fought the Titan Iapetus with Percy.

Etymology [ ]

Trivia [ ]

References [ ]