The Last Olympian

Attribution

Author

Cover artist

Publication Information

Publisher

Release date

Pages

Chronology

Preceded by

Followed by

The Last Olympian is a novel by Rick Riordan , published on May 5, 2009. It is the fifth and final installment in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series.

This conclusion to the saga revolves around Percy Jackson , the son of Poseidon , as he leads his friends in a last stand to protect Mount Olympus and the rest of the world from Kronos and his army of titans and monsters.

Contents

Plot [ ]

Blowing up the Princess Andromeda [ ]

Percy and his friend Rachel Elizabeth Dare drive to a ridge overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. There, Rachel reveals that her father is trying to get her to go to a finishing school, Clarion Ladies Academy , that she does not want to go to. She asks if Percy has decided whether he would go with her and her family for vacation to the Caribbean or not. Before he could answer, Blackjack , Percy's pegasus , lands on the hood of the car with Charles Beckendorf , a son of Hephaestus , on his back. Beckendorf announces that it is time for them to take out the Princess Andromeda .

Rachel Elizabeth Dare

Rachel kisses Percy and wishes him good luck. The two demigods then leave. In good humor, Beckendorf states that the kiss might be better left a secret to Annabeth Chase to which Percy agrees. The two see the ship and sneak onto it. A telekhine sees them, but is killed before he sounded the alarm. They then set Greek Fire explosives in the engine room. Percy leaves the room to distract the monsters on the ship, telling Beckendorf to meet him at the air pad.

Percy is captured and brought before Luke, who is now housing Kronos from the events of The Battle of the Labyrinth . The Titan duels Percy for the fun of it, and he mentions a spy in camp . A few minutes later, Beckendorf appears. It is revealed that all the other explosives are already in place and there would be no time to escape the ship once they explode. This is realized by the enemy forces a moment too late as Beckendorf had made it look like he was only about to plant the bombs when he got captured.

He silently convinces Percy to flee, but Percy refuses to leave him behind. Suddenly, a dracanae notices the trigger on Beckendorf's arm. Beckendorf moves to detonate the bomb, leaving Percy no choice but to escape the ship. He jumps off and wills the currents to speed him away. The ship explodes, and Percy blacks out, thinking only of Beckendorf.

Percy dreams as he drifts unconscious through the ocean. His dream takes place on Mount Othrys during a conversation between Krios and Hyperion . The two Titans talk of their plans to destroy Olympus . After they conclude their conversation, the scene shifts. Percy sees Nico di Angelo eavesdropping on the Titans as well. Nico then asks Percy how exactly he intends to defeat the Titans without the former’s plan before Percy comes to. Percy realizes that he is in Poseidon 's kingdom and is being tended to by his half-brother, Tyson .

Tyson then leads Percy to Poseidon's throne room, where he meets Poseidon's wife and godly son, Amphitrite and Triton , respectively. Poseidon then informs Percy that he is battling Oceanus . He confirms Percy's fears when he tells Percy that Beckendorf did not survive, but also reassures him that Beckendorf did not die in vain and that their little expedition had bought time for the Olympians . Before he sends Percy on his way, he states that Percy must return to Camp Half-Blood to fulfill the rest of the prophecy .

Returning to Camp Half-Blood, Percy brings news of the Princess Andromeda and Beckendorf. Though the campers are initially happy that the Princess Andromeda has been destroyed, they are distraught when Percy tells them of Beckendorf's sacrifice. Later, the camp's war council convenes. Chiron asks Percy and Annabeth to retrieve the prophecy from the Oracle . When the two return, they find the war council in a state of chaos. The head councilors of the Ares and Apollo cabins, Clarisse La Rue and Michael Yew respectively, are arguing. When nobody takes Clarisse’s side, she storms off, stating that the Ares cabin will not help the rest of them fight the war.

Typhon , the Father of Monsters.

Percy then proceeds to read the prophecy – which everyone now concludes to be about him – and realizes that no matter whose side he chooses to fight on, he will inevitably die. The other counselors realize this too, and sympathize with Percy. He brushes this aside and moves on to another matter: a spy in camp that Kronos had mentioned. The counselors begin accusing each other of being the spy when Silena Beauregard , Beckendorf's girlfriend, silences them by reminding them that Beckendorf has died and all they can do is sit and squabble. Through Iris Message, Chiron then shows them that the finally free Typhon has been making his way toward an unguarded Olympus, even with the gods trying to stop him.

The night following the meeting, Percy dreams of Rachel . In his dream, Rachel looks over two photos she has recently drawn. The first is a picture of Luke when he was younger, and the second is a picture of Olympus surrounded by lightning and figures wielding weapons.

The next day, Percy and Annabeth review the camp's cabins and the reports sent into the camp. Percy then reveals that Grover Underwood has disappeared without a trace and that their Empathy Link is weakening. Annabeth tells him that the source of the fight between the Apollo and Ares cabins is a chariot that the Apollo campers took in a raid that the Ares campers led. Annabeth regrets showing Percy the prophecy when Percy indirectly hints that the camp’s situation is hopeless, and Annabeth angrily walks away after calling him a coward.

Needing a break, Percy wanders to the training arena to visit Mrs. O'Leary , his hellhound . When he arrives there, Mrs. O'Leary runs into the forest, causing Percy to chase after her. He follows her to the clearing where the Lords of the Wild hold their meetings. There, Percy finds Nico , Leneus , one of the Council of Cloven Elders members, and Grover's girlfriend Juniper talking about Grover.

Leneus initially refuses to help Grover, but is forced to by Percy. After Juniper and Leneus leave, Percy and Nico talk about Nico’s plan. Percy recalls earlier on the Princess Andromeda how he was unable to wound Kronos/Luke. Nico tells him that he could have the same advantage. Percy hesitates, but Nico insists very fiercely, which is unlike him. Percy relents and they then travel together via shadow travel on Mrs. O'Leary to find Luke's mother in order to discover Luke 's past.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Percy and Nico arrive at Luke's mother's house in Westport, Connecticut and find that she is in a psychotic state. May Castellan greets the two boys as Luke when they arrive. She then invites Percy and Nico to lunch with her. Percy and Nico discover that Luke ran away in order to protect his mother from the monsters that are constantly hounding him. They also learn that when he gave his body as a host for Kronos, he required his mother's blessing. Having the information they came for, they attempt to leave, but Luke’s mother seemingly becomes possessed before returning to normal. Disturbed, Percy and Nico say goodbye and run from the house to find that Mrs. O'Leary has been approached by the goddess Hestia .

Hestia , the Last Olympian.

Hestia provides lunch for the boys and then tells Percy that no matter what side he chooses, he must remember her because she is the last Olympian. She goes on to explain that while all the Olympians are gone, she is the only one who remains for she is the goddess of the home.

Hestia then sends Percy and Nico to Percy's own home where they are greeted by his mother, Sally Jackson , and Paul Blofis who finally believes Percy's mother about everything that has to do with the supernatural. Percy and Nico tell her of their plan and she reluctantly gives Percy her blessing, and asks him to give her a signal if he does survive the war. Ready to carry out the plan, Nico and Percy shadow travel to Central Park to reach another entrance to the Underworld .

When Percy and Nico arrive at Central Park, Nico tells Percy that they will need music to enter the Underworld from that entrance. Suddenly, Percy feels Grover's presence and, uses his Empathy Link to awaken Grover out of a deep sleep. Grover then falls out of a tree near Percy and Nico.

He explains that he was spreading the news about Pan 's death and recruiting fighters when he saw a strange man walking through Central Park. Everyone within the immediate vicinity of the strange man would fall asleep, and when he has passed them, they would awake as if nothing had happened. As he went to confront the man, the man put him under a deep sleep.

After Grover's story, Nico says that Grover had encountered Morpheus , the god of dreams, and that his presence meant that the invasion is coming sooner than it was expected. The two then tell Grover their plan, and Grover, though scared for Percy and frightened of the Underworld, plays a song to open the gate to the Underworld before leaving to tell Juniper that he is alive. Traveling into the Underworld, they soon reach the River Styx . Nico, however, detours Percy towards the gate to Hades’s palace, and ultimately hands him over to the Furies .

As Percy realizes he has been tricked, he fights against Nico but is stopped by the Furies and has his sword thrown off a cliff, leaving him defenseless. Nico explains that his father had promised him information on his past if he turned Percy in. Upon arriving in Hades's throne room, Percy, Nico, and Hades are joined by Persephone , and her mother Demeter .

Hades , the God of the Underworld.

Hades then reveals that he sent Nico and his sister to the Lotus Hotel and abandoned them there to protect them and to keep them from aging until they left. He adds that the lawyer that took them out of the hotel was actually the Fury Alecto . Hades states that he planned to refrain from helping in the fight for Olympus and that after the Titans took over, he would strike their weakened forces. He then sends Nico off and takes Percy captive.

The River Styx [ ]

Percy ends up having yet another dream. He sees Rachel with her family on vacation and feels sad that he is unable to join them. He also sees that she is drawing in the sand in Ancient Greek. The dream changes to a view from the top of the St. Louis Arch. Percy sees the monstrous shape of Typhon and barely makes out the gods as they fight him off. Percy wakes up and sees Nico. He immediately pins Nico to the floor of his cell. Nico truthfully explains to Percy that he had no idea that capturing Percy was what his father had in mind.

Nico then helps Percy escape to the River Styx on Mrs. O'Leary. When the two get there, Percy has a talk with Achilles before bathing in the River Styx to become nearly invincible, leaving only the small of his back, opposite the naval, as his weakness. As Percy wades out of the river, he is attacked by Hades' minions and Hades himself. Percy escapes after defeating Hades and his minions using his newfound strength. As he leaves he tells Nico to stay and convince Hades to fight.

Percy then travels out of the Underworld and towards the Empire State Building . He calls Annabeth on his mom’s phone and tells her to round up the campers and head to the Empire State Building. Though he remembers that one of them is the spy, he tells all of them anyway of his plan to get Zeus to defend Mount Olympus. It is here that Percy is officially recognized as the camp's leader.

They head to the 600th floor and find the throne room empty except for Hestia , who is still tending the fire. She then shows him a vision of the day Luke and Thalia Grace found Annabeth — the same day Luke gave her the knife she still uses — and when Luke meets his dad, Hermes , for the first time. Percy almost collapses, overwhelmed by the vision.

Hermes suddenly arrives, and Hestia leaves. Uneasy because nothing is going as planned, Percy and Annabeth send the other demigods away to scout Olympus, leaving the two alone with Hermes. The god relays a message from Athena saying that they must defend Manhattan by using Plan 23 . To Percy, Athena tells him to remember the rivers and to stay away from her daughter. Annabeth mentions Luke, and Hermes, angry that she has brought up the subject, accuses her of having been unable to prevent Luke from hosting Kronos. Percy defends her, and the god of messengers departs with sadness and grief.

The campers gather in a small park at the edge of the mountain and find that Morpheus has caused all the mortal residents of Manhattan to fall asleep to prevent human intervention. They look beyond the borders of Manhattan and figure out that Kronos and Hecate must be using their powers to slow down time around the vicinity of Manhattan in such a way that the closer mortals get to the island, the slower time is.

The group then exits the building. Percy divides the campers into groups to guard the bridges and tunnels that the enemy may use to get to Olympus . As he realizes that he has left the Lincoln Tunnel open (even with a WWII M4 Sherman headed there), Thalia and the Hunters of Artemis appear and state that they would stand guard over that route. The group dissipates to meet the incoming invasion forces. Percy and Annabeth then fly on pegasi to activate Plan 23.

They proceed to help the Apollo campers on Williamsburg Bridge , the bridge connecting Manhattan to Brooklyn. The Apollo campers, Annabeth, and Percy manage to drive the enemy back to Brooklyn when they realize that enemy reinforcements, headed by Kronos himself, are on the other side of the bridge. The group falls back, but they fight nonetheless. During the battle, Annabeth intercepts a stab meant for Percy that was directed towards his weak point. The demigods retreat when Percy realizes how much strength he has and strikes Riptide into the bridge with such force that the bridge breaks. Michael Yew goes missing, seemingly like he fell off the bridge. Percy tells some Apollo campers to search for him. Kronos turns back and the campers and Hunters regroup and settle down for the night in their new headquarters, a hotel at the southeast corner of Central Park.

Percy's Dreams [ ]

Nico di Angelo .

Percy dreams about Nico where the latter is trying to summon his mother’s ghost, but his sister's spirit forbids him to. Nico insists, but instead of his mother’s ghost he is met with a vision. In the vision, he sees Maria di Angelo and Hades in the era of World War II . The two are arguing about Nico and Bianca's safety.

Hades wants to take them to either the Underworld , or to the Lotus Hotel and Casino where they will be safe. Maria replies that she cannot agree to either as she would want them to have a normal life. Zeus then makes the hotel where they are currently staying in explode, killing Maria di Angelo though the lives he had wanted to claim were Nico's and Bianca's. Zeus did this for fear that the Great Prophecy will be about either Bianca or Nico.

Hades then sends for Alecto and orders her to wash the di Angelos' memories clean in the River Lethe and to take them to the Lotus Hotel and Casino , where Zeus cannot harm them. The Oracle approaches Hades and states that she had warned him this would happen. Hades, in all his anger and sadness, curses the spirit of Oracle, declaring that it will never find another human host until he and his children are welcomed in Olympus. The dream changes, and Percy sees Rachel at the beach with her parents. She has a gut feeling that New York is being invaded by monsters and that Percy is in trouble. She then persuades her father to let her leave the beach and go back to Manhattan.

Percy is awakened by Thalia , who tells him that a Titan, Prometheus , has come to negotiate. Percy, Grover , and Thalia go to Central Park where the Titan stands with Ethan Nakamura , an empousa , and a clumsy Hyperborean Giant . The Titan states that Olympus is destined to fall, and that the demigods should surrender. When Percy refuses, Prometheus shows him more of Luke's past. In the vision, Percy sees Luke and Hermes arguing. Percy is moved by what he saw, but remains adamant. Prometheus then gives him Pandora's box, a pithos containing the Elpis , the Spirit of Hope. Prometheus tells Percy that if and when they decide to surrender, he only needs to release Hope, and the Titan would know.

The group head back to their headquarters. Due to his exhaustion, Percy falls asleep and dreams of Poseidon's undersea palace. The place is in disorder, and the sea is transformed into a huge battleground. The dream shifts to Aunty Em's Garden Gnome Emporium , the slain Medusa 's lair.

Percy sees the sheer numbers of the enemy forces, but his attention is drawn to Kronos, who is conversing with Ethan Nakamura , the demigod who had almost stabbed Percy in his weak spot. The dream shifts one last time to the Big House in a different era. There, Percy sees what truly happened to May Castellan , who tried to take the spirit of the Oracle . He quickly wakes and heads down to Central Park with some demigods. There, he sees the Titan Hyperion along with some other monsters. The two battle it out on the lake. Percy later has the upper hand when he creates a small hurricane to douse Hyperion's fiery aura. Grover and his satyr friends then successfully trap him inside a maple tree.

Almost immediately, the Clazmonian Sow descends and wreaks havoc. Percy and Blackjack chase it. Percy then activates some of the automatons scattered in New York via Plan 23 and orders them to destroy the Sow. After they successfully do so, he retreats back to the Empire State Building . Arriving there, he realizes that the campers have been pushed back to the doors of the building. Luckily they are saved by Chiron's cousins, the Party Ponies . As the last of the Titan army flees, Chiron notes that they will be back, and states that they should heal their wounded.

Dionysus, Old Friends, Drakons, and the Spy [ ]

As he talks with Annabeth about Luke, Percy suddenly finds himself at a party in the southern United States. There he finds Dionysus playing Pac-Man, who explains that it was he who had brought Percy's consciousness to that place. Dionsyus warns him not to lose Olympus, for it would be the end of Western civilization. Before he sends Percy back, Dionysius asks Percy to keep his son Pollux safe, and Percy agrees.

As Percy’s consciousness is brought back to New York, he suddenly sees Rachel on a helicopter. The helicopter is in danger of crashing as the pilot is asleep, but Annabeth manages to get inside the cockpit and steer it safely to the ground. Rachel and Percy then talk, with Rachel revealing a crucial piece of information: Percy is not the hero. Percy is visibly shocked and returns to the hotel headquarters.

Soon, Percy falls asleep again. In his first dream, he sees Nico trying to convince his father to fight in the battle for Olympus. The dream changes, and Percy sees Kronos ordering Ethan and Prometheus to release the drakon . He wakes and organizes his forces for battle. He and Annabeth go fight the drakon despite the fact that — according to Rachel — only a child of Ares can kill it.

They are then surprised when they see Clarisse leading her cabin into battle. However, after Clarisse is attacked by the drakon and falls from her chariot, they realize something is wrong. The real Clarisse soon arrives and they all recognize the fallen one as Silena Beauregard . Silena, knowing that she has little time, reveals herself as the spy. She explains that before she met Beckendorf, Luke was very kind to her. When she wanted to stop helping him, he threatened to blackmail her. Silena then passes away. Out of anger for her friend, Clarisse single-handedly kills the drakon.

After Clarisse defeats the drakon, Thalia suggests that Percy and Annabeth go to Olympus to help set up the final defenses. On their way to the elevator, they see Grover kneeling over a dying Leneus. After Leneus is reincarnated into a laurel, Grover accompanies Percy and Annabeth to plant Leneus in the gardens of Olympus.

As they near the main Olympian palace, they see Rachel holding Pandora's pithos as if in a trance. Percy brings her back to reality, and she gives the jar to Percy. Sensing that Percy and Rachel need a moment in private, Annabeth and Grover leave the two. Hestia suddenly appears, and Percy gives her the pithos as he realizes that in order to resist the temptation to give up Hope, he must leave it in the place where it survives best — in Hestia's domain: the hearth.

Annabeth and Grover return, and Percy tells them of his plan to convince Poseidon to fight for Olympus instead of his domain in the sea. They then help Percy climb on to Poseidon's throne where he is able to telepathically communicate with his father. Though Percy almost combusts as a result of Poseidon's anger that anyone else dared to sit on his throne, Percy is successful in convincing his father to fight along with the other gods against Typhon. At that moment, Thalia comes in to tell them that Kronos's army has reached the doors of Olympus.

The Cursed Blade [ ]

Kronos makes his way towards Olympus when Hades appears along with Persephone , Demeter , Nico , and a massive undead army. Impatient to get to Olympus, Kronos collapses the magical barriers around Manhattan and draws it closer to Olympus. By doing so, he has cut himself, his vanguard, and Percy’s group (composed of himself, Annabeth, Grover, and Thalia) off from the bulk of his army and from Hades. As Percy’s group fight off Kronos' vanguard, Kronos, along with Ethan , makes his way up to Olympus, where he starts to obliterate it.

Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Thalia quickly follow him, but Thalia is incapacitated when a statue of Hera falls on her. She urges everyone else to go on without her. The rest of the group make it to the throne room, and the final battle begins. Percy takes on Ethan, and is able to convince him to help him fight Kronos. Kronos kills Ethan after his betrayal by creating a fissure in Olympus, causing Ethan to fall to his death. Annabeth then attempts to awaken Luke inside his body by calling out to him. Kronos, however, manages to incapacitate the three campers.

Confident of his triumph, Kronos then shows them a vision of the Typhon , who, by now, has reached the Hudson River, with the gods barely slowing him down. Suddenly, Poseidon appears, and the gods strike with renewed force. They manage to send Typhon back to Tartarus , and Kronos destroys the vision in anger.

Luke Castellan .

Annabeth continues to try calling out to Luke, and is tossed across the throne room in return. Annabeth, now seriously weakened, tries one last time to bring Luke out by reminding him of his promise to her: that they would always be a family. The fact that he had hurt Annabeth spurs Luke to regain control of his body.

Percy tries to defend Annabeth as he wrongfully thinks that Luke still has evil intentions against them, causing Kronos to repossess the body. Luke, however, struggles to keep control. Luke tells Percy that in order to defeat Kronos, he must be slain by his own hand as Kronos would regain control if anyone else approaches him aggressively. Percy picks up Annabeth's knife, and though he initially decides to kill Luke himself, he gives the knife to Luke. Luke then stabs himself in his own weak spot. Because of his sacrifice, the Titan lord is defeated. His body is taken away by the Fates.

The gods return to Olympus and reward the heroes for their courage and valor. They promote Tyson to the rank of General of the Cyclopes , and present him with the most finely made club. They instate Annabeth as the official architect for the redesigning of Olympus. They award Grover the empty seat in the Council of Cloven Elders .

In addition, all the victims of the war would achieve Elysium . Lastly, the gods offer Percy immortality, but Percy declines, instead asking for a different wish. He asks them to claim all demigods they have sired as soon as they reach thirteen or as soon as they have reached camp. He also asks that Hades and the minor gods be respected and given a cabin for their children at camp. Plus, Percy asks for the Big Three Pact to be broken, saying the pact 'didn't work'. Because the gods swore on the River Styx, they must oblige to his wish, though some of them are uncomfortable with it. He is then congratulated by the gods.

Later, Nico tells Percy that Rachel has escaped to camp. Knowing what she is about to do, Percy quickly summons hippocampi to take himself, Annabeth, and Nico back to camp, but it is too late — Rachel had already chosen to take the spirit of the Oracle. However, instead of becoming like May Castellan , Rachel is able to successfully become the new Oracle, and at that same day, speaks her first prophecy .

The dead are burned in their funeral shrouds that night. During the burning of Silena 's shroud, she is honored as a hero, and her actions as a spy are never mentioned again. Percy and Annabeth decide to make their relationship official, and life in camp returns to normal for the next two weeks. Because the gods uphold their promise, new demigods keep appearing in many different places. Cabins are also being built for the minor gods. Even with Rachel Elizabeth Dare 's prophecy bothering them, Percy and Annabeth are excited about camp for the next summer and look forward to the future.

Prophecies [ ]

The Great Prophecy [ ]

In The Last Olympian , the Great Prophecy is revealed:

A half blood of the eldest gods, Shall reach sixteen against all odds, And see the world in endless sleep, The hero's soul, cursed blade shall reap, A single choice shall end his days, Olympus to preserve or raze.

The characters who play major parts in the Last Olympian and the First Great Prophecy.

The Prophecy of Seven [ ]

Near the end of the book, Rachel Elizabeth Dare , the new Oracle, speaks a new Great Prophecy:

Seven half-bloods shall answer the call, To storm or fire, the world must fall, An oath to keep with a final breath, And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.

Chapter List [ ]

Characters [ ]

Main Characters [ ]

Others [ ]

Deaths [ ]

Trivia [ ]

References [ ]

Gallery [ ]

Trailer [ ]

The Last Olympian (Percy Jackson & The Olympians, Book

See also [ ]

References [ ]