This article is about the character from the books. You may be looking for the character from the TV series or character from the films .

Zeus

Biographical information

Alias

Titles

Status

Gender

Family

Affiliation

Residence

Item

Physical description

Species

Hair

Eye

Behind the scenes

Appearances

Zeus is the Greek god of the sky, lightning, thunder, kingship, honor and justice. Throughout the series, Zeus is mentioned to be the most powerful god. He is the king of Olympus , the youngest son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea , and the husband of the goddess Hera . His Roman counterpart is Jupiter .

Contents

History [ ]

Circumstances of Zeus' Birth [ ]

Zeus was the youngest child of Kronos , the Titan King of Mount Othrys , and his sister-wife Rhea . All of Zeus's elder siblings had been earlier devoured by Kronos, who was terrified that one of his children (who were gods , a more powerful race of immortals than the Titans )  would ultimately overpower him as predicted by his father Ouranos before Kronos cut him into pieces. Hence, determined to retain his place as king, Kronos consecutively swallowed Hestia , Demeter , Hera , Hades and Poseidon as soon as they were born in the fear of being overthrown. As a result, Kronos became known as "King Cannibal." Rhea pleaded with Kronos to spare their children, but with no success, since even Kronos' great love for Rhea was not enough to overpower his selfish and evil nature. A distraught Rhea soon heard the voice of Gaea , advising her to give birth to her final child (who would save his other siblings) on the island of Crete . Claiming that Koios , her clairvoyant brother had advised her to do so, Rhea successfully departed for Crete without any question from Kronos.

Rescuing his Siblings [ ]

On Crete , in a cave at the base of Mount Ida, Rhea gave birth to her sixth and final child. His name would be Zeus. Rhea gave her newborn son to the nine nymphs that attended his birth (including Hagno ), and returned to Mount Othrys. She used a smooth stone (most likely a gift from Gaea ) the same size and shape as a newborn infant to deceive Kronos, by wrapping it up in swaddling clothes, and pretending that it was her final child. Kronos swallowed it without even looking (which gave him an intense stomachache), and was successfully deceived. Throughout his childhood, Zeus was raised by Rhea (who visited him often), the nine nymphs, the loud Kouretes, and the goat Amaltheia . Rhea would often tell Zeus about his brothers and sisters, all of whom he was destined to rescue from his father's stomach.

When Zeus grew to adulthood, he successfully transformed into a Titanic version of himself, and (with help from his mother) infiltrated Mount Othrys by convincing Kronos to hire him as his royal cup bearer. With the help of his great singing and dancing skills (as well as his knowledge of many outrageously hilarious "satyr jokes"), Zeus was able to constantly entertain all of the Titans at Mount Othrys, even Kronos himself. Shortly thereafter, Zeus encouraged all of the male Titans to participate in drinking contests. As the Titan King of Mount Othrys, Kronos would always win, since he could not let his siblings or nephews overcome him in anything. Finally, the Titan King began trusting Zeus completely, which is exactly what the latter was waiting for.

One evening, when Kronos was dining together with his Titanic brothers and nephews, Zeus prepared a special set of drinks for them all. The god prepared nectar mixed with sleeping potion for Kronos' guests to knock them out, while he prepared an extremely powerful emetic (made from a mixture of nectar and mustard) for Kronos himself which would make him vomit everything that he had once eaten out. As before, Zeus entertained them all with his excellent singing, wild Kouretes' dance moves, and outrageously hilarious satyr jokes. Near the end of the Titanic banquet, Zeus encouraged all of the Titans to have yet another drinking contest, and handed out the prepared goblets. As before, Kronos won the contest, but Zeus' emetic was so powerful, that it forced him to instantly disgorge all of the contents of his stomach, in reverse order of swallowing: first the stone, then Poseidon , followed by Hades , Hera , Demeter , and Hestia . All of them had been growing undigested in Kronos' stomach, being immortal gods. The other Titans were also knocked out and unable to retaliate.

Zeus quickly introduced himself to his elder siblings, and they all promptly escaped Mount Othrys, before their father, uncles and cousins came to their senses. In Zeus' cave, at the base of Mount Ida, all six of them happily reunited with their mother, Rhea , who tearfully embraced all of her rescued children. Shortly thereafter, the gods accepted Zeus as their leader, and reached a unanimous consensus on declaring war against their father. However, since the Titans were well-armed, and the gods still had no weapons, Gaea told Zeus to release his uncles, the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheire from Tartarus so that they could craft weapons for them.

Rescuing the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires [ ]

Zeus fights Kampê

Zeus' eldest brother, Hades, was very skilled in navigating under the earth, and was able to lead them all into Tartarus (through a network of Underworld tunnels). There, imprisoned in the maximum-security zone, surrounded by huge bronze walls, and a lava moat, guarded fierce demons, were the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires . Their guardian, Kampê , was the most ferocious and fearsome monster in all of Tartarus, and even Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades initially shuddered with horror when they saw the infernal monster for the first time. However, the gods overcame their fear, and were able to sneak in. Zeus managed to talk to the Cyclopes Brontes, and convinced him to forge powerful weapons for him and his siblings behind Kampê's back. The three Elder Cyclopes forged three incredibly powerful weapons: the Master Bolt (for Zeus), the Trident (for Poseidon), and the Helm of Darkness (for Hades). With these weapons, Zeus killed Kampê, and Poseidon shattered the chains of the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires, releasing them. Afterwards, Hades safely guided his siblings and uncles back out of Tartarus. In return, for their release, all six of Zeus' uncles agreed to fight on his side in the upcoming war with the Titans.

First Titan War [ ]

Shortly after their return from Tartarus, Zeus and his siblings officially declared war on Kronos and the other Titans, which resulted in the terrifying 10-year-long Titan War. The Titans initially had the upper hand, because they were much more experienced warriors. However, as the years of the war passed, the gods quickly became skilled warriors as well, and with the help of their new extremely powerful weapons (such as Zeus's Master Bolt , Poseidon's trident and Hades' Helm of Darkness , as well as the aid of the Elder Cyclopes and Hekatonkheires (whose immense strength became extremely useful as the war progressed), the gods finally prevailed.

While preparing for the final battle of the war, Zeus and his siblings ascended to Mount Olympus (the tallest mountain in Greece after Mount Othrys). During the final battle, Zeus used his Master Bolt to shear off the top of Mount Othrys , and hurl Kronos from his Black Throne, defeating the Titan King. Shortly thereafter, the gods invaded the ruins of Mount Othrys, and finally overwhelmed the remaining Titans Atlas , Hyperion , Iapetus , Krios , and Koios .

In the aftermath of the battle, the Elder Cyclopes chained up all of the defeated Titans, while the Hekatonkheires forced them to kneel before Zeus, Poseidon and Hades. Zeus took his father's scythe and sliced Kronos into a thousand pieces. While the remaining titan lords hung their heads down in shame, Atlas laughed and mocked Zeus saying the sky would fall if the Titans of the north, south, east and west were to be cast down to Tartarus. However, Zeus had already thought of that and punished Atlas by making him hold up the weight of the sky while the other titans involved in the war were banished down to Tartarus. Afterwards, Zeus offered the Hekatonkheires to return to Tartarus, this time as the jailers of the Titans, to which they readily agreed.

Becoming the King of the Olympian Gods [ ]

The gods chose Mount Olympus as their official residence, and the Elder Cyclopes built magnificent palaces there for them all. As a result, the gods started to call themselves the Olympians. Shortly thereafter, Zeus had a private meeting with his brothers, Poseidon and Hades, and the three brothers agreed to divide the world between themselves. Although it was Hades' birthright (as Kronos' eldest son) to be named his father's successor, he agreed to divide the Titan King's former domain with his brothers. Hades received the Underworld , Poseidon received the seas and oceans (despite Oceanus still being there though he accepted this without conflict), and Zeus claimed the sky and heavens as his domain. Shortly after this division, the three sons of Kronos came to be known as "The Big Three." However, Zeus' authority was recognized as superior to that of his brothers (probably due to him freeing his brothers and sisters), and so he became the king of the Olympian gods.

Marriage to Metis [ ]

Zeus took his childhood sweetheart Metis as his wife after the Titanomachy. Metis had served the King of Olympus as his adviser and mentor for much of his life. When his wife was pregnant, Zeus learned from her that she would give birth to two children; first a daughter and then a son who would one day overthrow him. Like his father and grandfather before him, Zeus tried to forestall this fate and, as Metis was about to give birth to their daughter, he tricked her into transforming into a fly and promptly swallowed her. Trapped inside Zeus, Metis gave birth to their daughter, Athena . Centuries later, after he had married Hera, Zeus suffered an unbearable headache and to relieve him of it, Hephaestus split Zeus' head open, and Athena, the goddess of wisdom and warfare, sprang forth.

Marriage to Themis [ ]

Shortly after swallowing Metis, Zeus took Themis , the Titaness of Divine Law and Justice, as his second wife. Themis gave birth to two pairs of triplets: the Horae (goddesses of the seasons), and the Fates (the three white-robed personifications of destiny). The Fates were already born as old women, which horrified both of their parents. After becoming the father of the Fates, Zeus, fearing the prospect of having even more intimidating children with Themis, advocated to end their marriage, to which the Titaness agreed, and peacefully stepped aside.

Hestia's Reluctance to Marriage [ ]

Meanwhile, Hestia decided to never marry due to numerous reasons: the first being that she could still remember her father swallowing her when she was a newborn, and how her mother had suffered under a husband who was a baby-swallowing cannibal. The second reason was Zeus himself swallowing Metis. Last but not least, when she saw the children of Zeus and Themis (particularly the Fates, who were feared by all), Hestia did not want to risk having children who were either disabled, or different, or strange.

Hence, when Poseidon and Apollo tried to court Hestia for marriage after Zeus had given them both permission to do so, she refused them both as courteously as she could, and declared her wish to never marry and be a virgin goddess eternally. She even offered to care for the hearth for all time, and do whatever she could to help out her family so long as her wish of eternal virginity and chastity was granted. Though somewhat confused by Hestia's explanations and subsequent requests, Zeus still approved of them, and henceforth his oldest sister became the official Goddess of the Hearth.

Relationship with Demeter [ ]

Shortly after ending his marriage with the Titaness Themis, Zeus courted his lovely sister Demeter . After transforming into a serpent, he successfully impregnated her. Zeus and Demeter's affair resulted in a beautiful daughter named Persephone . After the birth of Persephone, Zeus courted and impregnated Demeter again, resulting in a beautiful son named Zagreus. Though their relationship eventually ended, Demeter was still overjoyed as she loved Persephone and Zagreus dearly and would spend all her spare time with them. Their daughter, Persephone, grew up without want, always staying close to her mother, and later became the goddess of springtime and flowers, and her mother even shared some of her power over the earth with her. Their son, Zagreus, was closer to his father, acquiring a personality carefree attitude and his father's charm, however, Zagreus still spent a lot of time with his mother and sister. Demeter cherished her children as the most important thing in her life, and spent all of her time with them.

Marriage to Hera [ ]

Hera , his wife and oldest sister.

Soon after her return from Oceanus and Tethys (whom she stayed with to learn to control her quick temper) Hera caught the attention of Zeus himself. Since she was extremely intelligent and the most beautiful goddess in creation (before Aphrodite's birth), it was only natural that he would be attracted to her, but while Hera had strong feelings for him as well, she refused to be another conquest for the King of the Gods. However, Zeus was just as stubborn and would not be dissuaded. He applied his excellent singing, dancing, and joking skills to entertain and woo Hera, but she would not initially give in. Zeus made a bet with Hera that if she would ever confess her love for him, she would become his bride.

A few days later, Zeus proceeded to generate a tremendous thunderstorm around Olympus, and cunningly disguised himself as an injured cuckoo. The cuckoo flew into Hera's chambers, just as she was shutting her windows, and proceeded to fall on the marble floor. The sympathetic goddess took what she thought was an injured, defenseless creature in her arms, dried its feathers, and revived it with some divine nectar. On the next morning, the cuckoo did not seem inclined to leave, and affectionately rubbed its beak against Hera's finger. Hera admitted having grown quite fond of the bird herself, and gently cuddled it in her arms. At that very instant, the cuckoo transformed into mighty Zeus himself, still in Hera's embrace.

Although she was embarrassed and outraged by her brother's deception, Hera was still very impressed at Zeus' cleverness and resourcefulness. She finally agreed to become his consort on the condition that he married her, and remained loyal to her which was a promise Zeus broke by then siring many demigod children with mortals and nature spirits, which made Hera furious, causing her to usually curse the child. Their wedding (which was described as the most magnificent and grandiose wedding in history) was held in a spectacular celebration on Olympus , and was attended by many gods and neutral Titans. Zeus and Hera arrived on a huge golden chariot, steered by Eos (who illuminated the bride and bridegroom with brilliant rosy light), and the ceremony was lead by the three Fates themselves. Through her marriage to Zeus, Hera became the Queen of Mount Olympus and the Olympian gods. Zeus and Hera received great gifts from all of their wedding guests, but Hera's favorite was a magnificent apple tree (with golden apples) that she received from Gaea . Hera had the tree taken far off to the west, and planted in a beautiful orchard. Hera employed the Hesperides , daughters of Atlas , to guard the tree, but as the nymphs would occasionally pluck an apple from the tree themselves, she put a fierce one hundred headed dragon named Ladon there as well. This orchard was later named the Garden of the Hesperides .

The newlyweds enjoyed a wonderful honeymoon, and were both very happy with each other for 300 years, and had five divine children together: Ares (the god of war), Hebe (the goddess of youth), Eileithyia (the goddess of childbirth), Hephaestus (the god of fire and blacksmiths; some myths say she sired him without Zeus) and Enyo (the goddess of war). However, Zeus eventually became restless, and it was not long before he began the first of his many affairs. Hera was infuriated and frustrated to no end by his infidelity, and devoted most of her time to keeping Zeus in sight, as well as making the lives of his mistresses and illegitimate children miserable. Her hatred is most evident in the story of Hercules , whom she tried to kill repetitively.

Olympian Riot [ ]

Hera, enraged at her husband's infidelity, decided to start the first Olympian riot against Zeus. Hera managed to gain the support of Poseidon , as well as Apollo , and Athena . That evening, Apollo, Poseidon, and Athena hid themselves in the hall adjacent to Zeus' royal chambers, awaiting Hera's signal. As soon as Zeus had fallen asleep, all four of them quickly tightly bound the King of Olympus with unbreakable and tightening golden chains that Athena had created. Even chained up and completely immobilized, an infuriated Zeus still looked very intimidating. Finally, Poseidon attempted to reason with his brother, and demanded that Zeus be a better ruler. Zeus refused, which prompted Hera to advocate leaving him chained up in his chambers until he agrees. Shortly thereafter, the four Olympians departed for the Throne Room for the first (and last) democratic meeting of the Olympian Council, which proved to be a very cumbersome task. Fortunately, the violently trashing and bellowing King of Olympus was found by the Nereid Thetis. After convincing Zeus to be merciful towards the rioting Olympians, Thetis managed to find the Hekatonkheire Briares by the sea shore. He was more than happy to save Zeus, recalling that he owed his own freedom from Tartarus and Kampê to him. Briares quickly unchained Zeus, after which the latter seized his Master Bolt , and barged into the Throne Room, violently ending the meeting. Zeus remained true to his word, and was merciful towards the rioters, but he still punished them all accordingly.

Poseidon and Apollo were temporarily stripped of their divinity and godly powers and subsequently forced to serve Laomedon, the mortal King of Troy. Laomedon ordered Apollo to shepherd his herds, and Poseidon to build huge new walls around the city of Troy with his bare hands. The famous Walls of Troy came to be extremely durable, and would later keep the Greek forces at bay for 10 long years in the Trojan War . A number of years later, after accomplishing his mission, Poseidon returned to Olympus, where Zeus finally ended Poseidon's exile, restoring his divinity and powers. However, due to Poseidon's riot, Zeus would gain a strong and lasting distrust for his brother which several thousand years later would cause him to suspect Poseidon stealing his Master Bolt . Zeus would also become very distrustful of Apollo as well.

Hera, however, received the most severe punishment of all: Zeus chained her right above the terrifying Void of Chaos . Every day, Zeus would visit her, and threaten to sever the chains with his Master Bolt, and watch her tumble into the Void. Hephaestus could hear the wails of his mother all the way from Olympus , which infuriated him, as he could not bear to hear her suffering such a harsh punishment. As a result, he finally set her free. Hera tearfully embraced him, and promised never to call Hephaestus ugly again. Zeus, however, was infuriated. Hence, he violently stormed into Hephaestus' chambers, easily overpowered him, and flung Hephaestus all the way from Mount Olympus to Lemnos (which broke every bone in his body). In time, however, Hephaestus' wounds were healed, and he returned to Olympus. Zeus was somewhat ashamed of his past angry fit with his son, and (in a rare act) apologized and welcomed his son back with open arms.

In the Series [ ]

Oath of the Big Three [ ]

Over the centuries the Olympians moved west to the countries that held the seats of their great power and influence. During World War II , Zeus' and Poseidon's demigod children fought together against Hades' own demigod children. After Hades' side (Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Imperial Japan) was defeated, the Oracle prophesied that a half-blood child of one the three brothers would either cause the downfall or salvation of Olympus. This caused The Big Three gods to swear an oath to no longer sire any more demigod children, but because Hades already had two demigods (Nico and Bianca di Angelo), Zeus ordered him to take them to Camp Half Blood . Hades disobeyed, for fear that his children would either be turned against him or killed. An angry Zeus tried to kill the young demigods, Bianca and Nico di Angelo , by destroying the hotel they were currently residing in, but Hades managed to protect them. He, however, failed to save their mother Maria di Angelo , and was greatly grieved, and threatened to "crush him" for what he had done. Hades, however, placed a curse on the Oracle instead because he couldn't directly take his anger upon Zeus and it was her who issued the prophecy.

Thalia and Jason [ ]

Zeus became immensely attracted to a beautiful television starlet, Beryl Grace , and had a child by her ― Thalia Grace despite him swearing on River Styx not to sire any more children with mortals. He left her but returned seven years later, as his Roman aspect, Jupiter . Within the year, he had sired a Roman demigod, Jason Grace, who was named after the original Argonaut Jason , in order to appease Hera (since the Argonaut Jason was Hera's most favoured hero), as she was angered by his infidelity, and at the risk posed by having a Greek and Roman child born in the same family. Eventually, Zeus left Beryl again, as it was custom for gods to leave their mortal consort though that caused her to become really unstable and later die in a car crash.

Hades discovered Thalia's existence and was infuriated that Zeus had broken the oath. This betrayal, coupled with the fact that Maria di Angelo's death at Zeus' hands was still fresh in his mind, caused Hades to send an army of his most fearsome monsters after Zeus' daughter. As Thalia and her friends ― seven-year-old Annabeth Chase , fourteen-year-old Luke Castellan , and a satyr named Grover Underwood ― reached the borders of Camp Half-Blood , the monsters overwhelmed them, causing Thalia to sacrifice herself to save her friends. Zeus took pity on her and transformed Thalia into a pine tree to preserve her spirit, keeping it out of Hades' reach.

Percy Jackson and the Olympians [ ]

The Lightning Thief [ ]

Zeus's Master Bolt is stolen and immediately blames Poseidon since he distrusts the latter a lot. Soon after, Poseidon claims Percy Jackson as his son, and Zeus believes he had found the means by which Poseidon had stolen his bolt. This was because Percy was at New York, the location of Mount Olympus when the Bolt was stolen. Since it was forbidden for a god to directly steal another god's symbol of power, Zeus believed that Poseidon had ordered Percy to steal the Master Bolt in an attempt to dethrone him. Outraged, he threatens Poseidon with war unless the bolt is returned to him by the summer solstice . This situation gives Percy a quest to retrieve the bolt. He and his newfound friends, Annabeth Chase and Grover Underwood , travel across America to do so. They are successful and consequently return to New York City by plane. Percy travels to Olympus alone to return the bolt.

Percy relates the events of the quest to Zeus and Poseidon, and from there, the two gods conclude that their evil father, the Titan Lord Kronos must be behind the scheme. Zeus, however, refuses to immediately discuss the threat posed by their father. He promptly leaves to purify his Master Bolt in the waters of Lemnos to wash away the human taint that it had received from Luke and Percy. Zeus compliments his nephew Percy and decides to spare his life to show his thanks, but states that should Percy ever fly again, he would blast the demigod out of the sky with the Master Bolt. Zeus, however, has never gone through with this threat since Percy was still able to fly without getting killed later. After Zeus left, his brother Poseidon comments that he always had a thing for dramatic exits.

The Sea of Monsters [ ]

Zeus blames Chiron (who is a son of Kronos) for the poisoning of Thalia's tree , resulting in Chiron being fired, and replaced by Tantalus . By the end of the book, however, Zeus learns that the true culprit is in fact Luke Castellan (again) who is trying to bring back Kronos, and promptly reinstates Chiron as the activities director at Camp Half-Blood. Also, due to the great power of the Golden Fleece, Zeus' daughter Thalia Grace comes back to life .

The Titan's Curse [ ]

After the rescue of Annabeth and Artemis by Percy , Grover , Thalia, and Zoë Nightshade , the campers go to Olympus for the Council of the Olympians. There, the Olympians debate on whether or not to destroy Percy and Thalia, as either of the two demigods will hold the fate of Olympus when they turn sixteen. Zeus, though, refuses to destroy his daughter Thalia and is openly concerned when Artemis offers Thalia the now vacant position of Lieutenant of her Hunters (as Zoe Nightshade, her former lieutenant was killed by Atlas). Thalia accepts the offer and vows that the prophecy would not be hers, but Percy’s. The Olympians then vote on whether Percy should live, and despite somewhat disliking Percy's existence, Zeus ultimately votes for his life.

The Battle of the Labyrinth [ ]

Zeus allows Hera to interfere with the quest. However, when he feels that Hera has been with Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Tyson for too long, he gives the cue for her to return. Hera claims that Zeus and she had had some excellent marriage counseling recently.

The Last Olympian [ ]

Zeus and the other Olympians leave Mount Olympus to battle Typhon (their greatest foe), leaving their demigod children and a few minor gods to defend their thrones. Zeus refuses to let any of the other gods return to Olympus, although he does send Hermes to relay messages. The gods constantly fight for days, with Hephaestus and Dionysus becoming severely injured but nevertheless Typhon manages to arrive in New York. The gods are exhausted, but with the arrival of Poseidon , their fighting spirit is renewed and they defeat the fearsome monster, with Poseidon striking the final blow and sending Typhon to Tartarus. Meanwhile, due to Luke's selfless bravery, Kronos is defeated. The Olympians return to Mount Olympus to find the Throne Room in ruins, but they manage to repair it in a very short time. Zeus also makes the top of the Empire State Building glow blue to assure Percy's mother that her son is alive.

Zeus commends the gods for their bravery, and gives thanks to Hades for joining the war against their father Kronos , and to Poseidon , without whom they would never have defeated the fearsome Typhon . Zeus then rewards the heroes . To Thalia, he grants help in filling the Hunter’s ranks; to Tyson, the Cyclops son of Poseidon, Zeus gives the position of General of the armies of Olympus. To Percy, Zeus offers the ultimate gift of immortality ― to become a god and a Lieutenant to Poseidon. He is incredulous and rather furious when Percy (after much thought) denies the gift and asks for a different wish instead. Percy asks Zeus and the Olympian Council to swear on the River Styx first to be assured that his wish would be granted. Zeus and the other Olympians reluctantly agree to grant Percy's request as long as it was within their power. Percy, satisfied with this promise, asks them to pay more attention to their demigod children by showing them who is a demigod at the age of 13, to honor the minor gods, and to allow the minor gods to have cabins at Camp Half-Blood as if that had happened, demigods and minor gods wouldn't have turned to Kronos' side. Percy adds that the oath of the Big Three to abstain from having children should be dissolved as it was never truly effective in the first place, and that any children the three mighty brothers may have from their affairs with mortals should be trained and accepted instead of feeling abandoned. Though somewhat outraged at such a huge request, Zeus and the Olympians nevertheless agree to fulfill it, although this promise is not really kept.

The Heroes of Olympus [ ]

The Lost Hero [ ]

In a combination of paranoia and anger at Percy Jackson for his refusal of immortality, Zeus closes off Olympus and recalls all of the gods there. He also forbids contact between the gods and demigods, as he concluded that the increasing intervention of the gods in mortal affairs must be causing the rise of both Gaea and the Giants . Here, it is also revealed that he has a Roman son, Jason Grace , the lost but recently found brother of Thalia Grace .

Some of the gods, namely Aphrodite and Hephaestus believe that Zeus is acting merely out of wounded pride. Hera herself admits to having great difficulty at trying to guess Zeus' motivations for anything, but thinks his actions are bordering on paranoia. Including Artemis , the four gods disobey his commands to stay on Olympus and work behind his back to avoid getting caught. Despite this, Zeus indirectly aids Jason, Piper McLean , and Leo Valdez several times on their quest, most notably answering his son's prayer for aid against the Giant Enceladus although this act would've been done as Jupiter since Jason prayed to his father for help.

The Son of Neptune [ ]

Zeus himself never appears, and is rarely mentioned. At Camp Jupiter Percy enters his magnificent Roman temple, the Temple of Jupiter , where the god is referred to as "Jupiter Optimus Maximus." Percy sees a massive golden statue of the god with the Master Bolt and mentions that the Bolt does not look like that at all. Later, when Percy flies to Alaska , and starts feeling turbulence on the plane, he wonders if Zeus is messing with him.

The Mark of Athena [ ]

Zeus, along with most of the other Olympians, was incapacitated (with his personality split between him and his Roman form Jupiter ) after Leo was manipulated by Gaea into shooting upon Camp Jupiter from the Argo II .

In Rome, Jason , Piper , and Percy meet the Nine Nymphs (along with Hagno ), who had once helped Rhea , Amaltheia , and the Kouretes raise Zeus after his birth on Crete.

The Blood of Olympus [ ]

Zeus is angry at Apollo for his encouragement of Octavian and Artemis for disobeying his orders by helping her Hunters . Zeus also has Asclepius kept under guard, to prevent him from seeing anyone. Asclepius expresses worry for his father, noting that Zeus tends to be unreasonable.

When Reyna , with the help of six pegasi finally manages to place the Athena Parthenos on Half-Blood Hill , golden light ripples across the ground, seeping warmth into the bones of both Greek and Roman demigods, and curing all of the Olympians (including Zeus) of their split personalities. As a result, Zeus promptly arrives in Athens to participate in the final battle with the Giants . He arrives riding in a huge golden chariot, with the four Wind Gods (in equine form) pulling it, and Nike escapes the Argo II to become his charioteer. Zeus fights with the Master Bolt alongside Jason against the Giant King Porphyrion himself. After Jason knocks Porphyrion off of a cliff with an extremely powerful gust of wind, Zeus uses the Master Bolt to reduce the Giant King to ash that spreads across the landscape, to prevent Gaea from raising him once more. Zeus comments that he is proud of his son Jason, and does not at all hold the latter responsible for the current crisis.

Following the battle, Zeus starts to assign blame for the war. He turns his attention toward Hera and Apollo.  He blames them for the Second Gigantomachy , since Apollo allowed the Prophecy of Seven to be spoken (despite Apollo's earlier claims that he has little control of the prophecies or when they are spoken) and Hera for taking it upon herself to interpret the prophecy. Zeus reasons that there were multiple ways the prophecy could have been interpreted, which is why he was slow to act and why he cut off the ties between the gods and demigods, but the moment Hera started acting upon it, the number of possible outcomes became severely limited.

After Zeus sends Apollo back to Olympus to await punishment, Jason tries to speak up for Apollo about the futility of assigning blame and how that is what caused the ongoing schism between the Greek and Roman demigods. Zeus is furious with Jason for questioning him in front of the other gods, but is calmed by Artemis , who intervenes and soothes the situation, giving Jason a look that says she will reason with Zeus later, when he has calmed down.

To get the Seven Heroes of Olympus back to Camp Half-Blood in time to stop Gaea , Zeus grows in size, and successfully hurls the Argo II back to camp at supersonic speeds, though the ship is torn apart in the process.

The Senior Year Adventures [ ]

The Chalice of the Gods [ ]

Poseidon reveals to his son that, because Percy was never meant to be born due to the Pact of the Big Three , he is ineligible for New Rome University . However, Poseidon has gotten Zeus to agree to give Percy admission if he completes three new quests for the gods and gets a letter of recommendation from each god that he does a quest for. While Zeus had initially wanted Percy to do twenty-five quests in exchange, Poseidon was able to talk his brother down to just three.

The first quest that Percy performs is to recover Ganymede 's stolen chalice before Zeus has a feast and finds out, which is unlikely to end well for the cupbearer. Percy, Annabeth and Grover are able to recover the chalice from Geras , the god of old age, only to learn that Zeus is holding a sudden brunch for his mother Rhea who hasn't been on Olympus in a long time.

With the help of Grover, Zeus' kitchen staff, and Annabeth's Yankees Cap , Percy is forced to sneak into Olympus and Zeus's Palace to return the chalice to Ganymede in the middle of brunch. Percy manages to avoid detection by all but Athena who covers for him and creates an excuse for Percy to get Ganymede alone and return the chalice to him just in time, getting his first recommendation letter. During brunch, Zeus tells an overexaggerated version of the story of how he tricked Kronos into throwing up his siblings and lusts after Ganymede, much to Hera 's disgust.

Wrath of the Triple Goddess [ ]

When speaking to Hecuba , Percy mentions the King of the Gods turning his demigod daughter into a tree to save her as an example of the way he feels gods express their love for mortals.

The Trials of Apollo [ ]

The Hidden Oracle [ ]

Zeus is mentioned throughout the book. The only memory Apollo has from the last six months is Zeus yelling YOUR FAULT! YOUR PUNISHMENT! at him.

The Dark Prophecy [ ]

Zeus appeared briefly in Apollo's hallucination, sitting on a patio chair in Leto's condo in Florida, with Leto in a kneeling position and begging Zeus that Apollo is his son and had learned his lesson. However, Zeus replied with, "Not yet. Oh, no. His real test is yet to come." When Apollo saw them, he laughed and waved to them, to which Zeus glances at him and scowls.

The Burning Maze [ ]

Apollo mentions Zeus several times thoughout the book. He hopes that he will apologize for making him mortal and feels he was not the best father.

The Tyrant's Tomb [ ]

Apollo mentions his father when comparing the Olympian king’s Greek and Roman aspects, preferring him over Jupiter .

During the Battle of San Francisco Bay , he allows Artemis to help Apollo after he calls for divine help, but calls her back soon after the battle ends.

The Tower of Nero [ ]

In the "Advance Commentary" on the back cover of the book, Zeus does not say anything , just "...".

He and the other eleven Olympians watch the Battle of Nero's Tower . When the others ask if Apollo can become a god again, he says he cannot permit it as he must first face Python .

Two weeks after Apollo defeats Python and regains his godhood, he calls a meeting of the council. He welcomes Apollo back and refuses Dionysus’s request to be released as camp director. He explains how Python was able to poison the thread of the fates and that the sun god was the only one who could have defeated him. After nothing else comes up he calls the meeting to a close.

The Nico di Angelo Adventures [ ]

The Sun and the Star: A Nico di Angelo Adventure [ ]

Nico di Angelo tells Will Solace that he didn't get much time to spend with his mother ( Maria di Angelo ) before Zeus killed her.

Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard [ ]

The Ship of the Dead [ ]

Magnus Chase mentioned Zeus when questioning himself how both he and Odin could both rule the cosmos. It is explained before in The Dark Prophecy when Apollo says that separate pantheons are just different manifestations of the same truth.

Appearance [ ]

Zeus is very tall, imposing, and very muscular, with shoulder-length black hair and a gray-and-black neatly trimmed beard. He has brilliant electrically-blue eyes with a serious and proud, but very handsome face. However, when Zeus is infuriated, his face becomes "as dark as a thundercloud." In addition, when he is saddened, Zeus' gaze seemed "as far away as the ozone layer" to Jason. Zeus' normal attire is a dark blue pinstriped suit. According to Percy, the air around Zeus smells like ozone, though Jason describes him smelling of "rain and clean wind" instead. In Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Zeus wears white robes with threads of gold, and is described as looking very intimidating even when he is completely immobilized and chained up. In his divine form, Zeus is described as being surrounded by a "massive column of twisting lightning and fire." While helping the Heroes of Olympus fight the Giants in The Blood of Olympus , Zeus rode into battle on a huge golden chariot, with the four wind gods (in equine form) pulling it, and Nike as his charioteer. While not wielding the Master Bolt , Zeus has it clipped to his belt. He sometimes wields the Aegis , which appears as either a bronze shield, with the fearsome visage of Medusa upon it, or a glowing mantle, that glitters "as if woven through with filaments of Imperial Gold."

Personality [ ]

Zeus, as the most powerful god and the king of the gods, is very proud, commanding and has an extremely high amount of self-respect, almost to the point of sanctimoniousness, condescension and narcissism. He demands respect and precedence from mortals , demigods , and the other gods. One of the many examples of this is in The Lightning Thief when he was slightly irritated because Percy acknowledged Poseidon before himself. He also shamelessly interrupted Poseidon praising Percy in The Last Olympian when Poseidon inferred that Percy's bravery may have exceeded Hercules .

Despite being the god of honor and justice, with demanding high standards from others, Zeus himself does not always provide the best moral example. In fact, at times, he could be extremely paranoid, selfish, and hypocritical. The most evident example of his hypocrisy could be demonstrated through the oath taken by the Big Three to have no more demigod children: despite the fact that Hades had not broken the oath (since Bianca and Nico were born before the oath was taken), Zeus still attempted to murder his brother's children. Later on, he himself broke the oath by fathering Thalia and Jason , which forced both of them to endure the consequences of his broken oath. Even after Percy returned the Master Bolt to him and proved his innocence in the theft, he claimed Poseidon's fathering of Percy to be a severe crime, but let him live for the sake of peace with his brother. Notably, however, although Zeus did threaten Percy if he ever flew again, he genuinely thanked the demigod in his own way for returning the Master Bolt to him.

If Zeus imagines that he is being plotted against or insulted, he can be very unforgiving. Zeus often allows his negative traits to override his better judgment. Zeus' decisions are not always based on justice, but rather his personal whims and what he sees as best for himself, rather than the greater good. In some ways Zeus is lustful for power; it is evident in his title as king of the gods and his fear of his own brothers betraying or dethroning him.

Zeus has a tendency to hold grudges. Having a very strong and lasting distrust of Poseidon as he believes the latter had once attempted to overthrow the former from his throne. Zeus instantly blames Poseidon for anything that the latter could be guilty of in the barest despite having no evidence and all facts pointing to the contrary. For example, Zeus immediately blamed Poseidon for stealing his weapon without even understanding the entire situation . Later, he blames Apollo for hastening the second Gigantomachy , and continues to distrust him for participating in the attempted overthrow and for once killing several of the Elder Cyclopes to avenge the death of his son.

Zeus absolutely hates being humiliated and tries assigning blame to others to avoid making himself look at all bad. He blames Apollo and Hera for the second Gigantomachy, the conflicts between the Greek and Roman demigods, since Apollo assigned a new oracle who spoke the Prophecy of Seven and Hera took it upon herself to interpret it. However, in assigning blame, Zeus also ignores the facts that Apollo has little direct control or understanding of the prophecies made by the oracle, the Prophecy of the Seven was already foretold centuries before by the Sibylline Books and that the giants were already attempting to rise by World War II. If Hera had not acted, it would have been too late to do anything.

Zeus is noted to often be quite unreasonable especially if he has been proven wrong or made a fool of. He gets angry, tries to assign blame elsewhere, and takes any attempts of reasoning with him as challenges to his authority (or more likely judgment). The only thing one can do is wait for him to calm down and try to reason with him later.

Zeus's several flaws often get in the way of him being a good king. His refusal to change his decision when he is wrong, tendency to put himself before the other gods, or even admit a problem actually exists has put both Olympus and the world in danger numerous times. Hence, it has been noted that it is actually Hera who holds Olympus together and without her the gods would quickly implode.

Despite being the ruler of the universe, Zeus is also prone to making huge tactical blunders, which throws Olympus safety into jeopardy. He didn't bother to maintain a standing army to defend Olympus, throwing the responsibility on Percy, Annabeth and Chiron . Despite repeated warnings, he gathered all the gods to fight Typhon , when the real threat was Kronos . Zeus didn't bother to take immediate action against the rising Titans , much to Percy's dismay. In spite of his extreme recklessness in facing Typhon , he dedicated all of his energies into defeating the monster, to such an extent that he wouldn't let Athena leave the clash because she was his greatest strategist, showing a fair deal of tactical skill. That said, subsequently he didn't bother to stop the Giants immediately either. Instead he made it worse by cutting off communication with the demigods.

Zeus apparently has a flair for dramatic exits and is a quite a show-off, a trait Poseidon pointed out to Percy, saying that Zeus would have done well as the god of theater.

Despite his several flaws, Zeus does have a somewhat respectable side. He does love his children, but cannot show as much love as the other gods do, as he is the leader and must set an example. Rhea also confirmed in The Hidden Oracle that Zeus (her youngest son) was a father who firmly believed in expressing paternal love or concern in a strict way to make his children behave responsibly. It also cannot seem that he is merely choosing favorites. Despite this, he often does play favorites, especially with his daughters: he insisted that Percy's birth is a crime in itself, though he himself did no better than Poseidon by fathering Thalia . He also favors Artemis over Apollo, despite the fact that they both disobey him at times, and Artemis has confirmed that Zeus has never been able to stay angry at her for long, since she has the ability to charm him into forgiving her. His intense favor of Athena is evident as well, especially given how she was not punished despite aiding in Hera's attempt to overthrow him. He also has been seen to be capable of being impressed and showing affection for his children, as when Thalia was on the brink of death due to Hades' monsters, which were sent to kill specifically her as Hades wanted revenge against Zeus for Maria's death, Zeus took pity on his daughter, likely since her situation was partially caused by Zeus, and rather than letting her die and go to the Underworld and face Hades' wrath, he turned her into a tree so she could live and later voted to spare Thalia and openly said she had done well. In The Tower of Nero , despite Zeus claiming to care about Jason's death, Hera accuses him of being indifferent while Hera herself, famous for her hatred of her stepchildren, is deeply mourning Jason's loss even months later.

However, Zeus is still quick to turn on his children if he feels they have somehow insulted him or challenged his authority. An example of this could be seen again in The Hidden Oracle , where Apollo revealed that Zeus had a habit of threatening his children with his lightning bolts, and he also confirmed that his father was not the type of person who could overlook or dismiss what he deems to be great insults.

Although Zeus could be short-tempered and vengeful, he is also capable of sympathizing with those who had suffered the same injustices that he and the other gods suffered in their lives. A clear example of this can be found in The Titan's Curse , where he was the most willing to kill the Ophiotaurus due to the risk that it posed to the gods. However, after Percy pointed out that what the gods wished to do was the same thing that Kronos had tried to do with them in the past, Zeus was the first god to acknowledge the injustice and reconsider his decision.

Last but not least, as revealed in Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , Zeus does have a witty and charming side to his usually strict, prim, and serious persona, but he very rarely demonstrated it. Thanks to his knowledge of many outrageously hilarious satyr jokes, he also had a sense of humor.

In The Chalice of the Gods , Zeus acts like a showoff at his brunch with some of the other gods and Rhea, telling an exaggerated version of his tricking Kronos into throwing up his siblings. Zeus' version of the story includes llamas in Crete which probably didn't even exist on Crete at the time as pointed out by Grover Underwood and he takes a long time to tell it. The other gods, and possibly even Rhea, appear to be annoyed by Zeus' antics and try to deter him. In addition, he is shown to still openly lust after Ganymede which earns him Hera's ire. Poseidon later calls Percy sneaking into the brunch foolhardy because even Poseidon wouldn't be caught at one of them, something that Percy honestly can't blame his father for at all.

Abilities [ ]

On multiple occasions, Zeus is stated to be the most powerful god. In The Tower of Nero , Apollo states that Zeus is the most powerful and feared god. Finally, throughout Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes , its stated that Zeus is the strongest god with the most destructive capabilities. As one of the Big Three, Zeus has the ultimate powers a god can possess, and is rivaled only by his brothers, Poseidon and Hades , although Zeus considers himself to be stronger than his brothers. He possesses the standard physical and magical superiority inherent in all gods, though to a much greater degree due to his status as one of the oldest Olympians as well as one of the Big Three. Even Gaea refers to Zeus as "the first among the gods."

Attributes [ ]

Attendants [ ]

Zeus has several loyal attendants, such as the four Wind Gods ( Boreas , Notus , Zephyros , and Eurus , all of whom pulled his war chariot), Nike (the Goddess of Victory, who serves as Zeus' charioteer), Hermes (his son and messenger), and Ganymede (his cup-bearer).

Family [ ]

Immortal Children [ ]

Mortal Children [ ]

Etymology [ ]

The name Zeus comes from the proto - Indo - European root / word Deus , meaning god. D evolved into Z in Greek, but was specifically used for Zeus's name. Both gods and mortals referred to Zeus as Pater Zeus (Father Zeus) or Zeus Pater (Zeus Father). His name, according to Percy Jackson's Greek Gods , meant life.

Trivia [ ]

Gallery [ ]